After the Battle of Rancagua in 1814, when the Spaniards, defeated the patrician patriots, who looked for the-Independence of Chile: on November, oth, during. the same year, approximately a month after the war, the Spanish representatives broke into the houses of the intellectual politicians who had devised the independence attempt of the real nation, to transfer them to the island, turmed hito a prior nore than rat a vent 40.

Not less than thy ofthem, mostly old people, and used to a good life and domestic care, were taken rout of their beds land sent to jall, to form an exile convoy bound to last twenty sever horrible months of loneliness, hunger and hardships (vichna-Mackerad, 2010-pase 298).

According to Vic cura Mackenna (2010), Juan Egaña described the situation on the island narrating that the môst fearsome enemies were mice, which seemed

to be voracious. At first, they used the huts of the past colonists, which had to be abandoned due to their poor conditions; besides, they were full of mouse dens, which turned the huts uninhabitable. Apart from that, the wind marred the huts, adding up the noise by cats and dogs, not counting the mess by the mice, which are active at nigh, digsing their caves. Wind storms are huge, even now, blowing so strong that it is logical to think of the limited resistance these houses offered, as of the prisoners" health. That is why they had to change the defective huts by huge caves, where they could sleep on top of bunk beds epiding the contact with mice, which, according to what history tells, were able to face even dogs. Quoting Egaña, by Mackenna: "The consequences were serious, in relation L stuNTS-sas nr pain tolerated by everyone, with that stupid indolence where suffering refocuses, when at tire in of affliction, one loses hope for any help." (Vicuña Mackenna, 2010, page 307).

During those long 27 months of prison, there were three governors in charge of Juan Fernández, being the last and more affable Governor Cio.

In the afternoon of March 24th, 1817, a ship gets into the bay, disembarking a man who talked only to the governor. The 81 patriots were released and taken to the port of Valparaíso. They were transported by the ship 'Águila', which also transported the Governor, Cid; a chaplain friar, called Manuel Saavedra; a doctor called Manuel Morales, plus 6 Talavera soldiers, 9 from the Concepción Battalion and 5 artillery men; also 20 common prisoners plus 7 villager women and 14 servants of both sexes; altogether, 152 people onboard (Vicuña Mackenna, 2010).