> Change will not come if we wait for some other person or some other time. We are the ones we've been waiting for. We are the change that we seek.
> -- <cite>Barack Obama</cite>


Today I felt satisfied with the conversation with Beck F. in WA.

- settled on a purpose to facilitate her EFM questions
- I told her something about MP [[marypat]] and my meeting and marrying. She seemed a little bit over the top in her "thanksgiving" that I met someone and it is complete enoughy that we pray together etc. (as I shared with her.)
- Fr.[[2022-06-21]] Peter [[spiritual-director.linda-serepca]] called and askfred. He is seeked Holy Orders. He is "on the spectrum."
- Julian [[fathers]] is ordering a flight for 2nd week in November
- We are spending Thanksgiving in Rock Hill. Perhaps going on to Dayton
- MP got the $1,000 and gratuities paid for and ??


- # 2020-12-28
  id:: 63559f29-062f-4d0f-bb17-052ef8ba411f
	- This is Lydia's birthday. She is so far away (mentally especially) but her spirit seems rooted so deep within me.
	  
	  There is a story in WP about how more and more schools are tabulating what are the most successful degrees. The catch-word part of the story is that students aren't paying attention to the results. That's not what's interesting to me, it is using the results to get a picture of what is valued in our society at this point in time ValuesofSociety – and prompting questions about why? Where should we? [UT effort](https://seekut.utsystem.edu/UndergradNat) said to be pioneering effort and latest  [Federal Govt](http://cew.georgetown.edu/wp-content/uploads/CEW-Buyer-Beware.pdf)
	  
	  Unrelated is the fascination with Queen Charlotte – prominent because of a TV series *Bridgerton*. [Washington Post](https://www.washingtonpost.com/history/2020/12/27/bridgerton-queen-charlotte-black-royals/) Debate apparently about whether she had African blood in her, through Portugal.

2021 / 01 / 02 / 16:25:00 /
  
  Phone call with Charlotte. St. Paul's
  
  Owen did contact me re. CaringBridge. There can be read a detailed account of his injury and the plan for surgery 1/18.2
  
  Can I add to this today?