There are actually quite a few commits on this effort already, so it likely won’t be long until it is added to the Stable Channel build of ChromeOS. It’s a simple change, but **getting new users to understand that there is a simple setting for changing the way your trackpad scrolls content is a big deal and something that needs to be clear from the early parts of the setup.**

For the time being, ChromeOS defaults to the backwards-feeling, pre-Macbook scroll style that would have the content move in the opposite direction of your fingers on the trackpad. While this makes sense for the scroll wheel on a mouse, a 2-finger trackpad scroll feels far more like moving content on a touchscreen, so the page should move in the same direction as your hand. At least in my opinion.

My hope is that Google changes this default setting and then gives the user a heads-up that they can switch it to the non-modern setting if they so choose. There was once a time where the overview mode trigger (3-finger swipe) stayed backwards (swipe down) if your trackpad scroll setting wasn’t swapped, and they ditched that over a year ago. Currently, regardless of your scroll preference, 3-finger swipes **_upward_**are the only gestures that put you in the overview mode.

In a similar fashion, as Macbooks and Windows laptops all default to content scrolling in the same direction of your fingers with the trackpad, **Google needs to move to this default setting as well.** With the new OOBE prompt, it feels like that could be just around the corner. Either way, surfacing the setting to new users right out of the gate is a win and will make for more proficient Chromebook usage across the board once it gets implemented.