
---
title: 'Possible Lenten texts'
date: '2021-03-01T02:05:32.481Z'
tags: ['daily prayer']
---

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->

# Possible Lenten texts

## Possible texts include:

* *Paradoxology: Why Christianity Was Never Meant To Be Simple* Krish Kandiah (IVP) $17.00  Okay, I have to say I haven’t looked at this much, but it is new and I’m so intrigued by it.  People I respect – Scot McKnight, Jo Saxton, Eugene Cho —  all endorse it with gusto.  He starts with a wordy little joke in the first paragraph and says that if you get that paradox, there’s hope you’ll enjoy this book.  Yep, there are a lot of paradoxes in the Bible and in Christian faith and this isn’t a book trying to “answer” them or explain them away.  He invites us to live into the mystery, to embrace the seeming contradictions, to have a faith that is paradoxical.  Every chapter is on a different part of the Bible or character, with titles like “The Abraham Paradox: The God Who Needs Nothing But Asks for Everything” or “The Job Paradox: The God Who Is Actively Inactive” or, from Esther, “The God Who Speaks Silently” or, from – hold on – one he calls “The Judas Paradox:The God Who Determines Our Free Will.”  The ones about Jesus are not unfamiliar (being “Divinely Human”) and the one about the cross, while common place, I bet will be fabulous in Kandiah’s hands: “The God Who Wins as He Loses.”  There’s more, but you get the drift. If this is your cup of tea, give us a call asap.  I think you’ll want to read this in this upside down season.
* *Habakkuk Before Breakfast: Liturgy, Lament, Hope* Brian J. Walsh and the Wine Before Breakfast Community (Books Before Breakfast) $14.00  Again, this was a favorite last year, one I was honored to offer an endorsing blurb on (next to Karen Pascal, the Director of the Henri Nouwen Society and Tom Wright, Walsh’s old friend, who says  that “*Habakkuk Before Breakfast* is like no other book on the prophet.”

Wright continues,

That’s because it is, itself, prophecy, — and poetry, and preaching, and prayer, and liturgy, and lament, and a dozen other things melded together into a powerful, and powerfully disturbing, whole. A book to shake us up and make us realize that God’s loving justice is the only firm ground on which anyone – or any society – can ever stand.

I love that quote because this book is, truly, unlike nearly any other Bible study you’ve ever read. It narrates their “Wine Before Breakfast” communion services held at the University of Toronto, and the songs and prayers they used as they allowed the Biblical text to shape them, breaking their hearts open to a world not of their own making, but one construed and held as the troubling gift of a good creator and faithful redeemer. I’m telling you, this is a book to help you see worship in new ways, to see the Bible in new ways, to see life in new ways.  Lent is a perfect time to join this band of Christ-followers as they worship around the table in the dark times of early morning winter Toronto.

* *Executing Grace: How the Death Penalty Killed Jesus and Why It’s Killing Us*  Shane Claiborne (HarperOne) $17.99  Not long ago I had a long conversation with a gentleman who had been in solitary confinement for years. Beth and I had participated earlier this year in a conference organizing faith-motivated folks to think and act justly about this whole topic of mass incarceration, prison reform, solitary confinement — which is a much worse topic than you may know, unbelievably bad and in urgent need of reform — and, of course, the topic that we sometimes call “capital punishment.”  Agree or not with Shane’s gospel-centered, grace-filled, Christ-like view (there are Biblical texts he avoids and arguments he doesn’t adequately grapple with) I think reading about those who are incarcerated and on Death Row is a necessary component of our own calling as Christians, mandated, as we are, at least, to “visit the prisoner.” Most of us don’t do that, so at least we can be advocates, prayer partners, citizens working for better policies for our imprisoned fellows. I think this is a very good book to enter into this conversation.  There are important endorsements here from the likes of Philip Yancey and John Perkins (and Bob Goff who says “you’ll finish the last page and not just know more, but you’ll want to do more.”) Desmond Tutu raves, and Bryan Stevenson (author of the must-read Just Mercy) says “Compelling and thoughtful… a must-read for people of faith, essential for anyone serious about grace and mercy.” Well.  Maybe this season you will be drawn to this kind of topic.  I know it is a lot to ask, but we’d invite you to consider ordering this from us today.
* *The Jesus Way: A Conversation on the Ways That Jesus is the Way* Eugene Peterson (Eerdmans) $17.00  I suppose you know all five of these remarkable, mostly big, somewhat dense books that Peterson saw as his most important contribution. It is called “spiritual theology” that is more than only spirituality, more than systematic theology, more than Bible study, but a rich and rewarding combination, by a scholar/pastor.  I agree with Scot McKnight who said once that “no one simply reads, or worse, skims Peterson. One ponders Peterson, as Peterson ponders the Bible.”  Yes, and more. I’ve been working on these five volumes, on and off, for years, and I cannot tell you how important they are.  This third one in the series – following *Christ Plays in Ten Thousand Places* and *Eat This Book* and *Tell It Slant* offers profound insight into how others in the Bible anticipated His coming and shows how the ways of those who came before Christ – specifically Abraham, Moses, David, Elijah, and Isaiah — “revealed and prepared the ‘way of the Lord’ that became incarnate and complete in Jesus.”

As it says on the back:

Peterson calls into question common “ways” followed by the contemporary American church, showing in stark relief how what we have chosen to focus on — consumerism, celebrity, charisma, and so forth –obliterate what is unique in the Jesus way.
* *The Sense of the Call: A Sabbath Way of Life for Those Who Serve God, the Church, and the World* Marva Dawn (Eerdmans) $18.00  One of the great books of our time, and one that we continue to carry with us whenever we sell books off site, if it is remotely appropriate, is Marva Dawn’s *Keeping the Sabbath Wholly*. (It is a book that would be wonderful to read during this time of the church season, by the way, learning to build some rest and discipline into your schedule.)  In that remarkable and influential volume she delightfully unpacks four aspects of Sabbath keeping: resting, ceasing,  feasting, and embracing.  That’s a lot, but not too much, and it clarified a lot for many of us about the restorative, beautiful gift of Sabbath time.  Of course, it isn’t easy to enter in to that sort of counter-cultural practice, and it is even harder for those who are in leadership within the local church where much work is done on Sunday.  Anyway, in this book (for church leaders, yes, but, truly, for anyone and everyone) Marva spells out how those four movements of the Sabbath day’s rest can actually be woven into daily living the other six days of the week.  In this powerful work she revisits those same four life-giving aspects from her Sabbath book, turning them into a “Sabbath way of life” and shows how we all can be formed in these helpful way, through these historic disciplines and practices, dispositions and attitudes.  It is a remarkable, rich, rewarding, good read , just over 300 pages. As Eugene Peterson says, “there is not a trivial or superfluous word in this book.”

Mark Buchanan (whose own book *The Rest of God* is pretty darn nice, too) calls Marva Dawn “a holy oddity” as she,

> …juggles the prophetic with the pragmatic, stern warning with giddy invitation, a scholar’s exactitude with a child’s whimsy. She embodies both human brokenness and divine transformation…

* *Love Let Go: Radical Generosity for the Real World* Laura Sumner Truax & Amalya Campbell (Eerdmans) $21.99  A few years ago I was blown away by the raw and revealing memoir by Laura Truax called Undone: When Coming Apart Puts You Back Together. She is the passionate pastor of the storied faith community in urban Chicago called LaSalle Street Church and in this new book she and a congregation member who taught stewardship classes there (and herself has an MBA from Harvard Business School), tell of something amazing that transpired in that place.  A smaller version of this has been used as sermon illustrations and youth talks for years, but this is the real thing: a major donor gave the church a ton of money.  They concluded they didn’t want it – itself a story worth writing a book about! – but they decided to give each member $500 and instructed them to go out and do good in the world. This is, on the surface, the stories of what happened as radical generosity became even more of a way of life for this congregation.  This is more than fun tales of giving and sharing and helping, it is what *Publisher’s Weekly* has called “a well-wrought book, of interest to anyone interested in community building or philanthropy.”  It is what McLaren calls “a powerful alternative message (to greed)” and “the transformative power of generosity.”   This is a counter-cultural story that needs to be known, but it is also a rich study of the psychology of giving, the nature of living abundant lives within a culture that promotes scarcity, and the plausibility of being Christ-like in a world like ours.  One of the best books of the year, I’m sure.
* *Silence and Beauty: Hidden Faith Born of Suffering* Makoto Fujimura (IVP) $26.00  Well, if you haven’t gotten this yet, might I suggest you do so now? I am not always this “pushy” but I am confident that this marvelous reflection on the relationship of art and creativity and beauty and suffering  — and what all that tells us about God and the hope of redemption in the sufferings of Jesus — is a perfect book to take up as we move towards Good Friday.  You know we respect Mr. Fujimura (what a thrill it was to have me introduced at Grove City College last week and having it said that the next speaker in their series of which I was a part, was painter and essayist Makoto Fujimura!) This is not only a survey of good thinking about faith and art and suffering but it is, quite specifically, a conversation with Japanese novelist Shusaku Endo and his stunning story *Silence*.  And, also, tangentially, about Mako’s friend Martin Scorcese and his making of a film based on this 1960s novel.  The novel (about the persecution of Christian missionaries in Seventeenth Century Japan) was influential in Mako’s own journey to Christ and his Christian witness today in the world of the arts and letters is somewhat indebted to Endo’s novel. It all comes full circle in *Silence and Beauty* — Mako, Endo, Japan, art, film, pain and redemption, goodness and life, the gospel and cultural renewal, faith and mystery.  What a book! Very highly recommended!
* *The Givenness of Things: Essays* Marilynne Robinson (Picador) $16.00  This paperback is worth every dime – loaded, as it is, with ponderings deep and delicious, thoughtful and interesting, glorious, even.  Granted, she is writing deeply, as a literary essayist here — you may only know her Pulitzer-Prize winning novels such as Gildead, Homecoming, or Lila — but if you are a serious thinker or wanting to be aware of the major public intellectuals of our day, you could hardly do better than to spend time with these remarkable, heady essays.  Her intellectual prowess is well-respected (*The Christian Science Monitor* mentioned her “formidable intellect” and *The New Republic* said her handiwork is “capacious and serious, but also mysterious and wondrous.”) *The Givenness of Things* was named as Time’s top ten nonfiction books when it came out in hardcover and now, in this nice paperback, there is added a two-part interview between her and then-President Barack Obama that first appeared in the *New York Review of Books*. *The New York Times Book Review*, by the way, said her “heroic lamentation is magnificent… timely and important.”  That she is a John Calvin scholar, too, makes her just a fascinating, tremendously interesting figure. Until her next novel comes, read this.
* *Restoring Broken Things* Steven Curtis Chapman & Scotty Smith  (Thomas Nelson) $14.99  Maybe you’ve heard that there is a brand new memoir by CCM singer Steven Curtis Chapman (*Between Heaven and the Real World: My Story*) or maybe you’ve read some of pastor Scotty Smith’s powerful, serious books of prayers.  They are both men who have suffered, men who are attentive to the fallen nature of our hurting world, and who are firm in the hope that the gospel is, in fact, a restoration of creation.  This old book (which I featured at Jubilee this year on Saturday morning as we studied the fall, injustice, and brokenness) tells the big gospel story — creation/fall/redemption — and invites us to see “what happens when we catch a vision of the new world Jesus is creating.”   This is good, accessible, Biblical theology, offering varying ways to tell the story of the gospel, to help us see our own role in the fresh start of new creation that God is bringing to bear in our lives and in all of creation.  Dan Allender wrote a lovely, passionate forward. This is a great book to read anytime, and certainly a good one for now, here in the midst of the Lenten season when we ponder broken things, and yearn for authenticity about that, and yet hope for greater comfort and healing and restoration.  I’m a big fan of this book and commend it to you.
* *The Yoke of Jesus: A School for the Soul in Solitude* Addison Hodges Hart (Eerdmans) $14.00  This compact sized paperback is so beautifully written, so warm, so insightful, that I wanted to list it here.  He is a Catholic priest and college chaplain – his books are oddly winsome even as they tackle some tough stuff.  (See, for instance, his book *Knowing Darkness: On Skepticism, Melancholy, Friendship and God*.) This gracious volume invites us to silence and solitude, to care about our souls by attending to ordinary practices, bringing together dogma and belief (on one hand) but linking it to true knowledge of God and earnest love for God.  What is the role of stillness in Christian discipleship, and how have the ancient writers (and the Bible itself) taught us about deeper prayer through nurturing habits of solitude? Hart’s most recent two books, by the way, also small ones, are on Buddhism (for Christians) and a lovely study of the gospel of John, called *The Woman, the Hour, and the Garden*.
* *The Prophets* Abraham Joshua Heschel (Harper Perennial) $19.99  You may have been meaning to read this large, serious work for years, now, or maybe you’ve only recently heard of this passionate mid-twentieth century Rabbi/scholar/activist.  (You will see his white hair and beard in many old pictures of Dr. King and the civil rights marches.) First published in 1962 The Prophets has been considered a classic ever since, plumbing as it does, the pathos of the Hebrew prophets. Perhaps now is a time to start it. For a less daunting, but equally rich, very rewarding read, consider Rabbi Heschel’s wonderful and important work The Sabbath (Farrar Straus Giroux; $14.00.)  It was released, I think, in 1951 and remains a standard in any discussion of Jewish spirituality.  I think I first learned of it, or was challenged to read it, by Marva Dawn or maybe Eugene Peterson, who often recommends it.  You really should have both of these…
* *The Seven Deadly Virtues: Temptations in Our Pursuit of Goodness* Todd E. Outcalt (IVP) $16.00  There have been a small spate of books along these lines – we like The Danger of Doing Good by Peter Greer and the very useful and wise Doing Good Without Giving Up: Sustaining Social Action in a World That’s Hard to Change by Ben Lowe — but this one is more literary, more deeply theological, wonderfully written, drawing on thoughtful sources from the Ante-Nicene Fathers to Kierkegaard to Pope John Paul.  The author is a United Methodist pastor and popular author.  This looks tremendous and feels like a good book to read during Lent, even though it isn’t exactly a Lenten book.  Check it out and you may be surprised how insightful it may be for you.
* *The Desire- Satisfying the Heart* 'The Desire: Satisfying the Heart James M. Houston (Victor) $16.99  The remarkably profound scholar and teacher and spiritual leader, James Houston, who founded Regent College in British Columbia, is known for his mastery of medieval and other spiritual writers and remains a like-minded colleague with authors such as **J.I. Packer, Marva Dawn, Eugene Peterson**.  A small evangelical publisher rather oddly published three magisterial books of his years ago and they went out of print. This was one of those and we have a few that we’ve been holding for ages.  Given the popularity of thinking about desire (see books just as David Naugle’s excellent Reordered Loves Reordered Lives, Jen Pollock Michel’s splendid Teach Us to Want, and of course Jamie Smith’s must-read You Are What You Love ) we wanted to highlight this now, and make our few available, while our supplies last.  The Desire explores the very nature of the human heart and how longings for the eternal play out in our daily lives, even as we discern false desires (which can become addictions and dysfunctions.) A remarkable book, especially in this season where we seek, as this book offers, “a more substantial and satisfying life.”  By the way, we have a few others in this magnificent, mature series. Let us know if you are interested.
* *Learning to Walk in the Dark* **Barbara Brown Taylor **(HarperOne) $14.99  It is rare to find someone who doesn’t appreciate Barbara Brown Taylor’s rich prose, her wonderful use of words, her charming tone, even in serious sermons.  One of my own all-time favorite books is her brief memoir of coming to Christian faith and discerning a call to the ministry called The Preaching Life (which concludes with some sample sermons, themselves always worth reading. Let us know if you want to make our day by ordering one from us.) But this, her most recent book, is a study of darkness in our lives, literal and metaphorical, explored in the entertaining form of story and memoir, how she came to embrace doubt and darkness, which, in her estimation, isn’t at all a bad thing. From sitting in an utterly dark cave to camping out in the deepest night to attending to some perplexities and pain in her own life, she invites us all to explore this side of life, literally darkness and the “dark night of the soul.”.  I loved this book and its quiet blend of charm and provocation and commend it to you during these weeks of Lent.
* Bread and Wine: Readings for Lent and Easter <http://amzn.to/2mkeEpB>: *This, dear friends, is the only Lent devotional on the list that I’ve actually read. It is a companion book to *Watch for the Light: Readings for Advent and Christmas <http://amzn.to/2mlsXu0>, *which I know many of you love (I do too), and this one is just as lovely. I love the mix of voices in these books — from saints (like Aquinas), poets (like Hopkins), and some of my favorite spiritual guides (Nouwen, Norris, L’Engle). If you’re looking for a breadth of voices this is a great way to go.
* Preparing for Easter: Fifty Devotional Readings from C.S. Lewis <http://amzn.to/2mzYjsZ>: I have not, to be honest, read that much of C.S. Lewis’ work. (Not sure I got through Christian college or my evangelical youth without reading every Narnia book. Whoops.) But I just finished reading a spiritual biography of Lewis, and now I have to go back and read all of his stuff. (Did you know that *Screwtape Letters* was originally published as a newspaper column, and *Mere Christianity* came from a series of radio broadcasts he did? He was basically a Christian blogger before it was a thing.)

From the publisher: “Carefully curated, each selection in *Preparing for Easter* draws on a major theme in Lewis’s writings on the Christian life, as well as others that consider why we can have confident faith in what happened on the cross.”

* *Wondrous Encounters: Scripture for Lent*, Richard Rohr |<http://amzn.to/2lZC1E7>: From the Publisher: “Father Rohr begins each meditation with a single title or phrase that sums up the point. Then he offers the meditation followed by key passages from the readings. He ends each meditation with a Starter Prayer that invites you to self-disclosure and to enter the wondrous divine dialogue with clarity, insight—and holy desire!”
* *A Way Other Than Our Own*, Walter Brueggemann | <http://amzn.to/2l0C82J>: Walter Brueggemann is an Old Testament scholar and a leading Christian voice when it comes to engaging injustice and the church’s responsibility to provide an alternative narrative to that of Empire. I’ve been meaning to read more of his work, and the political climate here in the U.S. has given me the push I needed. This is on my list for this Lenten season.
* *The Ignatian Journey: Experiencing the Spiritual Exercises of Saint Ignatius in Daily Life*, Kevin O’Brien, SJ: | <http://amzn.to/2l2AwFL> I recently got this book to work through with some friends. While not strictly for Lent, this book guides you through the Saint Ignatius’ Spiritual Exercises, which include praying through the life of Christ and contemplating the Passion and Resurrection. What I love about this book is the way that it gently guides you to interact with God in prayer, providing a structure with lots of space to reflect and contemplate. I’m looking forward to delving more deeply into these Exercises.
* *Lent for Everyone*, *Matthew Year A*, N.T. Wright | <http://amzn.to/2muUtC0>: N.T. Wright is a popular biblical scholar whose work has helped me in my own faith reimagining. In this book he “provides his own Scripture translation, brief reflection, and a prayer for each day of the season, helping readers ponder how the text is relevant to their own lives.”

(I’m still new to this liturgical business. If you are too and are wondering what this *Matthew Year A *business is about, it’s because there are apparently different readings for different years. This year — Year A — you’d get the book in which Wright takes you through Matthew. (He also has ones for the other years that take you through

<http://amzn.to/2mv0w9V> *Lent for Everyone: Mark* and

<http://amzn.to/2m1HU3L>  *Lent for Everyone*: Luke.)

* *Lent and Easter Wisdom from Henri J. Nouwen | <http://amzn.to/2ldRcFo>: *I just love Henri Nouwen. He always brings it back to our Belovedness in Christ. His would be a great and gentle voice for anyone who, like me, has complicated feelings about Lent.
* *Between Midnight and Dawn: A Literary Guide to Prayer for Lent, Holy Week, and Eastertide*, Sarah Arthur | <http://amzn.to/2ldK1gA>: For my literature lovers out there, of which I am one. I’m totally getting this one. From the publisher, “New voices such as Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie and Benjamín Alire Sáenz join well-loved classics by Dostoevsky, Rossetti, and Eliot. Light in the darkness, illuminating the soul. *Between Midnight and Dawn: A Literary Guide to Prayer for Lent, Holy Week, and Eastertide *will use imagination to draw you deeper into God’s presence. Read it through, then use it as a resource for years to come.”
* *Simplifying the Soul: Lenten Practices to Renew Your Spirit, *Paula Huston  <http://amzn.to/2mBO2fL>: And I’ll probably get this one too! Not only is Huston a Benedictine oblate (I’ve been hooked on Benedict since Micha Boyett/Mama:Monk <http://michaboyett.com/> introduced me to him years ago), but she’s also an honored literary writer featured in *Best American Short Stories *and *Best Spiritual Writing *anthologies. (She mentors MFA students in creative nonfiction for Seattle Pacific University, so clearly she’s fantastic.)

From the description, this book seems to combine the contemplative with the practical: “With honesty, vulnerability, and grace, Huston challenges readers to move outward and act, showing them how everyday actions like cleaning out a junk drawer, giving away something no longer used, or spending fifteen minutes in silence can be surprisingly powerful ways of experiencing a more meaningful Lent and a simpler life.” So if you’re looking for something that propels you to more directed action, this book might be for you!
