-
- # 2021 / 02 / 17 / 17:57:16 /
  id:: 63593b9d-9077-4c79-b3cc-2eee7dd06841
	- Joe S. came down. He was receptive to my interest in *The Black Church.* He is chair of the board for his church so is much involved in the same kind of thinking I have offered Charlotte at St. Paul's. He agrees with the notion that the "end of Christendom" is a good thing and that it provides opportunities for being a better church. What that might look like differs, of course.
	  
	  I had to look up Emma's name when Joe & Katy were talking about someone of Russian background. Emma Mironichenko
	  
	  * I am grateful for:
	  * What surprised you this day?
	  * What did you learn this day?
	  * Daily affirmation: QuoteFeed
	  * How could I have made today better?
	  * What would make today great?
	  * Three (3( things that happened today
	  
	  Grateful for Joe listening to me about the black church and "I have a dream". I learned in tonight's episode that the phrase "I have a dream" was given to Dr King by a woman preacher – I can't remember her name.
	  
	  I got to hear the beginning of Obama singing *Amazing Grace* at Mother Emmanuel – it still gives me chicken skin and I still think it is a shattering moment for our nation. But the depths to which we sank as a nation during the last 4 years is equally mind-boggling.
	  
	  I am grateful for the moments that Annie and Howie gave us during our 15 minutes of self-reflection for Ash Wednesday.
	  
	  From F. Buechner today:
	  
	  > WORDS—ESPECIALLY religious words, words that have to do with the depth of things—get tired and stale the way people do. Find new words or put old words together in combinations that make them heard as new, make you yourself new, and make you understand in new ways.
	  
	  <!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->