-
- # 2021 / 11 / 19 / 04:58:06 /
  id:: 635aef11-0467-42eb-a1aa-e0266f13f7e6
	- tags: ['detachment,zen,November 2021']
	  
	  T. Keating and others on "detachment".
	  
	  <https://midwestoutreach.org/2017/12/09/contemplating-contemplative-prayer-is-it-really-prayer/>
	  
	  (org-mode)
	  <<<
	  *Beyond Self: The False Self vs. the True Self*
	  
	  Thomas Merton claims that "the superficial 'I' is not our real self," but only our "individuality" and "empirical self," not the "hidden and mysterious person in whom we subsist before the eyes of God."20Thomas Merton, /New Seeds of Contemplation/ (Abbey of Gethsemani, Inc., 1961), This kind of thinking is found also in Keating and Pennington.
	  
	  Keating states that CP takes us to a place:
	  
	  "...in which the knower, the knowing, and that which is known are all one. Awareness alone remains. The one who is aware disappears along with whatever was the object of consciousness. This is what divine union is."21Thomas Keating, /Open Mind, Open Heart/ (Rockport, MA: Benedict's
	  Monastery, 1992), 74
	  
	  
	  Keating and Merton both discuss the false self and the true self.  Keating capitalizes "Self," and states:
	  
	  "God and our true Self are not separate. Though we are not God, God and our true Self are the same thing."22Thomas Keating, /Open Mind, Open
	  Heart/ (Rockport, MA: Benedict's Monastery, 1992), 127 According to Merton, our "external, everyday self" is mostly a "fabrication" and is not "our true self" which:
	  
	  "is not easy to find. It is hidden in obscurity and 'nothingness,' at the center, where we are in direct dependence on God."23Thomas Merton, /Contemplative Prayer/ (The Merton Legacy Trust, 1969; Garden City, NY: Image Books Edition, Division of Doubleday & Company, Inc., 1971), 70
	  
	  Buddhism teaches that our identities are merely fleeting images or impressions, like images on film, or a "sequence of happenings, of processes,"24Joseph Goldstein, "Exercise/ Easting" in Jean Smith, ed., /Breath Sweeps Mind: A First Guide to Meditation Practice/ (NY: Riverhead Books, 1998), 184
	  
	  <!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->