-
- # 2021 / 01 / 23 / 20:57:47 /
  id:: 63574c37-c045-4723-9510-aa94f938c1a1
	- I learned today: (from lectures on classical literature)
	  
	  In Alexandria, established after Alexander's death, it was the most important city in the "world". There were two chief constructs: the Museum and the Library. I've known of the library, destroyed (date?) mysteriously. I didn't know about the "museum". The lecturer explained that the museum is not the monumental display of old objects that we know today. It was dedicated to cultivating the "Muses" – the word means that.
	  
	  Near comparison? A world class university and the library to support the work of the university.
	  
	  * What was my favourite moment this week?
	  * How did I practice self-care this week?
	  * One moment where someone helped me
	  * What's something positive from this week that I can bring into next week?
	  * Who or what am I grateful for this week?
	  * One moment where I helped someone:
	  * Who or what is keeping me motivated and inspired this week?
	  * What do I want to let go of before next week?
	  
	  One thing that was satisfying was pulling the lecture/presentations together. I felt a kind of link with the professionals I was listening to on my walks. I was synthesizing. Saying more and more clearly something that I knew – not all of it, but some of it.
	  
	  Worst of the week were the times of alienation with MP. But the best? Reading in the text and getting to the library that Bill had got to weeks ago? Getting 188 #'s? Flipping the mushrooms/onions with a certain amount of confidence and flair?
	  
	  I'm certainly not proud of my alienation from Sean. Who helped me? Janet with her pushing to talk about the hard things? The lecturers? I think it probably was the exercise with Janet, learning that MP puts herself last in priority. Knowing that should help me to
	  me to pause. But did it during the week? Not exactly.
	  
	  
	  <!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->