-
- # 2021 / 10 / 01 / 08:37:44 /
  id:: 635aef11-c3ec-4581-aa68-3ee287d25ec2
	- Oh, Ali,
	  This is like one of the most wonderful emails I've ever received. Your trust and honesty in sharing something of your story is a treasure and I thank you profoundly.
	  
	  In terms of your conclusions about things, I mostly agree with all of them. Your stubbornness and not fitting in – yep, check that. From the sounds of it I would say you have earned your conclusions in spades. Over the years I have watched my little brother be a model for me of a loving, kind, and thoughtful person. He's also either atheist or agnostic. He loves me and I love him. I've tried to generalize over the years, thinking at times that unbelievers are better at love than Christians. But I don't really think that's the case. I've known Christians who are profoundly loving and kind also. It's also clearly the case that Christians don't have a monopoly on violence, prejudice, and evil. At this point in my life I've decided I'm content to continue to try to be kind and love and to be a witness and force against violence, prejudice and evil. As long as the Christians accept me I'm good with that. At this point I don't think there's any other place for me.
	  
	  I heard an interview with Pete Seeger many years ago. He reflected on how most of the causes that he had stood up for and fought during his long life had ultimately been losing battles. He said that what was important to him was not the winning or losing but to have spent your life with the "good people" – by which he meant the people who were fighting for and against the right things. Love, kindness, against violence, injustice etc., that sort of thing. I sometimes remind myself of his words when I feel discouraged. Your story encourages me. When I see you in church it brings me a smile. Thank you.
	  
	  Faithfully,
	  Dale +
	  
	  To see a World in a Grain of Sand
	  And a Heaven in a Wild Flower
	  Hold Infinity in the palm of your hand
	  And Eternity in an hour (Blake)
	  
	  <!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->