-
- # 2021 / 03 / 16 / 07:48:09 /
  id:: 63593b9d-f59d-49c4-9277-9f2499a85fe9
  collapsed:: true
	- <https://emacsconf.org/2020/talks/17/>  org-roam RoamResearch
	  
	  > It requires one outside software, which is Zotero, what I use. It's an open source reference management software. It's great. But the thing to keep in mind is that I use two plugins that are really needed for when we work with org-roam-bibtex, org-roam, Org Mode, and the ZotFile. Better BibTeX organizes your reference keys in a way, in a fashion that works for you. For me, all my reference keys are last author and year. With ZotFile, I let it rename all the PDF files the same way that I have for my Bib keys, which is last name of author and year. All right. Once you export your entire library as a Bib file, then you can work on it within Org Mode and Emacs using the following packages. So with org-roam-bibtex, it creates an Org file for each Bib entry. You have the option of templating and doing other stuff with it.
	  
	  Clericus:
	  
	  Bishop was negative to EC evangelist (Jerusalem ?). Potential for opening up numbers based on rolling average. York/Lancaster not doing so well.
	  
	  Sally hoping to get into nave by August. Sally wasn't in the mood to hear the evangelist.
	  
	  Gordon living with uncertainty: church ministry, bought a house on line (Yarmouth, Nova Scotia), what retirement hold?,
	  
	  As I shared with them about the 2 directions of Jim vs. congregation. Sally recommends eventually calling bishop. Amanda is a friend of Rhonda and calls her a good listener.
	  
	  <!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->