-
- # 2021 / 02 / 04 / 20:34:29 /
  id:: 63593b9d-034d-4bc9-8c22-3cbc37d49f0a
	- This evening, before I left to return to the hotel, Mary Pat and I went in to be with Gini. To pray. To be with. After a time of quiet, I suggested we pray compline. She was happy to agree. We prayed it through and it was the most prayer-time I've experienced at the house in a long time. Even the priest, by comparison, seemed to prone to extemporaneously trying to pray to Gini's needs. It was good.
	  
	  I was put to mind in reflecting on Mary Pat's question to me before we went in, "Do you want to go in to see my mom?" I heard it as her suggesting to me what she thought I ought to be feeling or wanting. Only too late, after she was exasperated with me, did I realize her question meant, "Would you go with me to be with mom?" I'm the one being overly literal I guess.
	  
	  ---
	  
	  Earlier a call to Charlotte arranged an earlier than planned recording of next week's service at StPauls . It's a rather huge re-arrangement for me that came from MP's recommendation. Strangely, coming from a group that as recently as earlier in the week had warned against using the word "dying", now this group is planning GIni's funeral and she's not yet died. So the plan is to have either a Friday or a Saturday funeral next week, depending on St. Charles' availability. But a Friday funeral would not be possible for me if I am recording the service on Thursday. The possibilities are further limited by the several reports of very strong reactions to the 2^nd^ covid shot – which is the whole reason for our trip back to South Carolina.
	  
	  So, now the plan is that we will record on Monday after our shot in Lancaster. That means I've got to get a sermon earlier. I also may not record the Ash Wed. service. But I have a new sense of what they were planning re. HomeLiturgy, which  would fit my draft for Maundy Thursday, so I'd like to get that in the works. Charlotte is consumed with the collapse of financial support and the pending ominous cuts that will have to take place on "her watch" as Senior Warden.
	  
	  ---
	  
	  I am grateful for getting the grading in order for my classes. The summary I wrote re. their Timelines. I learned about how much I still have to learn in reading Mary Pat's intentions. As she left me and the room to call Sean I felt the old bitterness that will no doubt be present when we get back to South Carolina.
	  
	  I felt bad at not confessing the spill in the dining room. I tried but the guys had disappeared and there was the uptight lady standing in back of my waiting for something.
	  
	  I learned there's a public url-serving folder at "Pcloud" the way there used to be at Dropbox. It should make it way easier to serve graphics, perhaps other documents, including here in my tiddly. WorkingWithTiddly
	  
	  <!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->