-
- # 2021 / 06 / 04 / 08:57:25 /
  id:: 635aef12-55e9-444f-a06f-9a593a3e1866
	- Your message wasn't delivered to bishopandrewedusc@gmail.com because the address couldn't be found, or is unable to receive mail.
	  
	  Sam Rodman
	  8:00 AM (1 hour ago)
	  to me
	  
	  Thanks again, Dale.
	  I had a chance to read some of these great sermons this morning. A team of us were at St. Paul's last evening to provide some pastoral care, in the wake of Jim's death. One of the presenters also quoted Simone Weil about the importance of paying attention as an expression of prayer and of love. The Holy Spirit is moving, or at least our minds and hearts are, in the direction of hope. Thank you for your considerable gifts and leadership as you walk with this congregation during this time!
	  Bp. Sam
	  
	  Dale Hathaway <dhath12@gmail.com>
	  8:56 AM (14 minutes ago)
	  to Sam
	  
	  Dear Bishop,
	  Thank you for your care-filled attention and response. I had the thought to send the link to my sermons during one of my daily walks. I began the respository after retirement when I realized that the best record of my life and thoughts was found in my preaching. The prompt to send the link to you was in the realization that any accounting or reporting of my ministry should at least include my effort to find the words to connect the gospel to the lives of the saints of God. Over the years I have earnestly tried to be faithful to that calling. I am grateful for and impressed with the abundant response you have given the people of St. Paul's. I am just a small piece in the huge community for which you have oversight, but you have shown a gracious attention, and I do hope to meet you one day. Thank you again.
	  
	  
	  <!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->