-
- # 2021 / 02 / 06 / 05:28:36 /
  id:: 63593b9d-c17b-4720-b01b-5ce5a09677af
	- tags: ['writing,February 2021']
	  
	  I had a very vivid dream in the middle of the night. It was vivid then – with graphic sex – and it has stayed with me. I try to record it now. Perhaps in honor of reading Bob Sjostrom's dream yesterday.
	  
	  Mary Pat and I were walking in what I believe was Iolani. Like 2 teenagers we snuck into a room and found a cushion and began making passionate love. It was startlingly explicit in my experience. It was sensual and satisfying to both of us, perhaps partly because of the risk of being discovered.
	  
	  And, of course, we were. Mary Pat covered herself as best she could for modesty's sake, perhaps I wasn't quite as naked as she. And the security guard was kind of light-hearted about "writing us up". He was dismissive of our claim that we were "husband and wife." "Sure you are."
	  
	  But then another guard came and seemingly had more serious charges and was not as personable. The 2^nd^ guard had seniority somehow and was not as lighthearted.
	  
	  But through it all Mary Pat and I were satisfied that we had made love, that we had got what we wanted, and were willing to pay the price.
	  
	  So a vigil kept.
	  
	  ---
	  
	  Reading in *Time of the Magicians* I got into a rhythm. It was more of a narrative. The author I think regularly adopts the language of his subjects as a way of **embodying** them, and with, e.g. Heidegger, that is difficult to enter into. But I was particularly struck by the description of Benjamin's preparations for writing his proposed book/thesis on 17^th^ c. drama. He gathered 700 usable quotations from a series of plays and then headed for Capri (southern Italy) intending to turn them into his text.
	  
	  I experienced something like that **on a small scale** in my composing and then recording my sermon for Sunday 2/14 in barely 4 hours. writing
	  
	  In contrast to this method, Benjamin found the synethetic energy of **porosity** in the piece he wrote about Naples. I would describe it as finding a way to ignite the words with a kind of **luminosity**.
	  
	  p. 219 and before, Benjamin describes LostInGrief **grief** as **silence.** Language no longer speaking.
	  
	  <!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->