-
- # 2021 / 12 / 16 / 07:39:24 /
  id:: 635aef11-9b4f-452b-b235-9256b467ec9e
	- [[Journal] sending me an excerpt from *Naked Now* by Richard Rohr
	  
	  Thank you for this! Not only do I recognize this in connection with yesterday's conversation but I recognize it in my own life. The telling thing for me of what you said was, "There is no 'goal' (in spiritual direction), but if there was one, this is what it would be." Part of what is important in the relationship with Mary Pat is her memory of the teaching her priest gave her as she was discerning her own move to Hawai'i. The priest suggested the possibility that there wasn't a task to do there, but only "to be." As I have heard more than once, perhaps from Richard Rohr, that the goal is to accept that we are loved. There is, of course, a long tradition of seeing the goal as some kind of unity with God. In the counter-cultural ways of my college years, I persuaded a German professor to let me complete my language requirement with an independent study of Meister Eckhart. I did the same with one of my English requirements with an independent study of 14th c. English Mystics – that involved one of my tenderest memories of my father where he helped me photocopy an inter-library loan of the Cloud of Unknowing. The block plan at Colorado College allowed me to take a course in "Christian Mysticism" in the Wind River Range of Wyoming. A lot of this trajectory was influenced by memorizing large quantities of W.B. Yeats and T.S. Eliot. Most people would say, "What are you thinking?" It made sense to me then and is an important confirmation/memory now. Thanks.
	  Dale
	  
	  Faithfully,
	  Dale
	  
	  To see a World in a Grain of SandAnd a Heaven in a Wild Flower Hold Infinity in the palm of your hand And Eternity in an hour (Blake)
	  
	  On Wed, Dec 15, 2021 at 9:27 PM Linda Serepca <lindaserepca10@gmail.com> wrote:
	  Scanned with TurboScan.
	  
	  Linda Serepca Director, Charlotte Spirituality Ctrwww.charlottespiritualitycenter.org704-776-3787 cell
	  
	  
	  <!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
- # 2021 / 12 / 16 / 07:43:49 /
  id:: 635aef11-fe0c-45a7-9913-afaafc17b0b4
	- tags: ['SpiritualDirection,creation-spirituality,December 2021']
	  
	  <https://www.spiritualityandpractice.com/book-reviews/view/19451/the-naked-now>
	  
	  Dale Hathaway
	  7:39 AM (5 minutes ago)
	  to Linda
	  
	  Thank you for this! Not only do I recognize this in connection with yesterday's conversation but I recognize it in my own life. The telling thing for me of what you said was, "There is no 'goal' (in spiritual direction), but if there was one, this is what it would be." Part of what is important in the relationship with Mary Pat is her memory of the teaching her priest gave her as she was discerning her own move to Hawai'i. The priest suggested the possibility that there wasn't a task to do there, but only "to be." As I have heard more than once, perhaps from Richard Rohr, that the goal is to accept that we are loved. There is, of course, a long tradition of seeing the goal as some kind of unity with God. In the counter-cultural ways of my college years, I persuaded a German professor to let me complete my language requirement with an independent study of Meister Eckhart. I did the same with one of my English requirements with an independent study of 14th c. English Mystics – that involved one of my tenderest memories of my father where he helped me photocopy an inter-library loan of the Cloud of Unknowing. The block plan at Colorado College allowed me to take a course in "Christian Mysticism" in the Wind River Range of Wyoming. A lot of this trajectory was influenced by memorizing large quantities of W.B. Yeats and T.S. Eliot. Most people would say, "What are you thinking?" It made sense to me then and is an important confirmation/memory now. Thanks.