-
- # 2021 / 04 / 16 / 08:10:52 /
  id:: 635aef12-4ebb-476c-9ade-023304f50354
	- Bezos on 5 important words: [INC](https://www.inc.com/bill-murphy-jr/with-5-short-words-jeff-bezos-just-shared-a-brutal-truth-most-people-never-learn.html)
	  This is where Bezos shares a simple, brutal truth that so many people never learn, before using the remainder of the letter to make his case that Amazon actually lives up to this ideal.
	  
	  The five words? "[Create more than you consume](https://www.aboutamazon.com/news/company-news/2020-letter-to-shareholders?tag=wwwinccom-20)."
	  
	  Here's the context:
	  
	  > "If you want to be successful in business (in life, actually), you have to create more than you consume. Your goal should be to create value for everyone you interact with. Any business that doesn't create value for those it touches, even if it appears successful on the surface, isn't long for this world. It's on the way out."
	  
	  ---
	  
	  Storyline
	  
	  Alan is a stylish tailor with moves as sharp as his suits. He has spent years searching tirelessly for his missing son Michael who stormed out over a game of scrabble. With a body to identify and his family torn apart, Alan must repair the relationship with his youngest son Peter and solve the mystery of an online player who he thinks could be Michael, so he can finally move on and reunite his family.
	  
	  *Sometimes, Always, Never*
	  Bill Nighy and Marmite
	  
	  12 July 2019 | by backofthevan – See all my reviews
	  
	  I will watch pretty much any film with the wonderful Bill Nighy. Just watched this one and not sure what I think of it. His character, wildly knowledgeable when it comes to Scrabble, was 100% wrong when he stated that Marmite is banned in Canada. No, my friend, it definitely isn't. I have a jar in my own cupboard. I actually had to have a look and confirm that it is, indeed, Marmite, and not the poor substitute Vegemite (which he claimed was the only option for Canadians). Marmite has been available here for at least 10 years and, since the film obviously takes place in the present, he was just plain wrong.
	  
	  Now I'm thinking that if the availability of Marmite is my lingering thought after seeing this film, how memorable was it? It DOES meander, as others have said. It DOES try awfully hard to be visually quirky to the point of being absurd at times. It does convey somewhat the damage done to people when someone they love goes missing. There's no closure; they spend their lives from that point on grieving, wondering, blaming, searching and, likely, never really having a carefree moment again. That was certainly brought home to me in all its sadness. If you need cheering up, this is not the film for you.
	  
	  Is this a vitally important film? No. Not even sure why it was made. It's like reading a short story, which is what it was based on, finished in 90 minutes or so and easily forgotten.
	  
	  A small film about big topics that balances an overarching feel of sorrow with heavy doses of whimsy. Eloquent both visually and emotionally, it speaks volumes about heartbreak even when the characters can't quite find the words to do so themselves. (Richard Crouse)
	  
	  ---
	  
	  Trailers
	  
	  1. biopic on Errol Flynn (just saw reference to him in Hemingway) *In like Flynn*
	  1. *Swinging Safari* slapstick but quirky?
	  1. *Madame*  role reversals, but quirky too?
	  
	  <!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->