-
- # 2021 / 01 / 22 / 06:03:19 /
  id:: 63574c37-03db-40b4-81b2-1024ab3da764
	- * I am grateful for:
	  * What surprised you this day?
	  * What did you learn this day?
	  * Daily affirmation: QuoteFeed
	  * How could I have made today better?
	  * What would make today great?
	  * Three (3( things that happened today
	  
	  I wake up with an intense sadness at having left Hawai'i. My experience of being forced out of Hawai'i. +Bob being dishonest and manipulative, a coward, and unaware of his own cruelty. Thinking: the one place in my whole life where I felt at home and connected to all that matters, and I'm cut off from it. That and the sadness of the same sort of dynamic with Emma. LostInGrief.
	  
	  AssignedLetter2MP
	  
	  FinancialIssues
	  
	  Working on 317 Ch. 14. 317Todo I rearranged presentations on Calvinism: Calvinism, English, Developments. The "emergence of Modernism" gets shifted to the next module, leading into Enlightenment. Be sure to change the graphics.
	  
	  I am grateful for our prayer this morning. It wasn't fantastic, it was just regular. And that's what I'm grateful for. I'm grateful for the lectures on my walk: Aristophanes –  *The Clouds* is the lecturer's favorite (an alternative view of Socrates) – and Plato – a 20 minute summary of *The Republic* is totally rewarding.
	  
	  "It's not what happens to you, but how you react to it that matters." – Epictetus. This is an old thought. It's not "non-Christian" or "non-Western".
	  
	  I learned in the course of working on the Calvinist presentations. I brought some order to the chaos of my old presentations.
	  
	  **"I can do this."**
	  
	  <!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->