-
- # 2021 / 03 / 03 / 22:13:28 /
  id:: 63593b9d-d3b4-43ad-a7d4-f51b7be6c2e4
	- tags: ['March 2021,conflict']
	  
	  March 2021
	  
	  Time with Karen this morning. She seemed to be listening to insight I was dragging us into.
	  
	  1. Trust: The problem is trust. It has been broken. What do you do? You first stop hurting one another.
	  1. Mary Pat expresses an unawareness of when she is hurting me. I asked her what were the indications that she was hurting. She said that she retreats and stops talking. Maybe that's so. But I was particularly focused on how she ends up focusing herself on defeating me in every thing I speak. She asked what it was for me. I thought and paused. I said that I have tried in the past to communicate non-threateningly that such and such was hurtful to me. But, I said, that had not been helpful.
	  
	  Parenthetically I think that it was not helpful because she so readily takes everything as an indication that she is guilty or wrong that she immediately becomes defensive. I went on to say that probably I retreated, as she had described.
	  
	  She related how I had closed off conversation the dinner before last when I responded to her hair tied up by saying I thought it was lovely. She objected with an excuse. I got up to do something in the kitchen and said "But then I don't know anything." She quickly went on to say that it wasn't helpful fo rme to say that and that she knew that it was difficult for her to receive compliments and that that was an issue for her.
	  
	  I was able to report to her this morning with Karen what I hadn't said the night before, that I was very impressed with her quick response with that insight. Karen heard that.
	  
	  1. I suggested that  we might have a potential conversation piece about how we were hurting. She was today advocating that we "slow down". It seems as if that meant looking more closely and in depth at the conversation itself. I said that we might talk about what we are hurting from. But the commitment would be 1) to listen closely and 2) that it is not our task to fix it.
	  
	  I told an abbreviated account of waking this morning when I had been stalked by something or other. I woke early. I was concerned about the key from WU I couldn't find. Later, looking for the EKG monitor, I found it!
	  
	  <!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->