-
- # 2021 / 03 / 10 / 06:42:45 /
  id:: 63593b9d-0878-4e20-8f4e-d2e53de72190
  collapsed:: true
	- tags: ['March 2021,dream,conflict']
	  
	  dream: Larry Smith was the head guy. Like he was a retired bishop or something. The church was an old elaborate wooden structure. I was supposed to be an assistant, a new assistant. Supposed to preach. Julian was my server and my assistant. He had been off working and was scheduled to be back to wherever we were in order to get us to the church on time. I was running late and worried about Julian, but he was prompt. There were other people, Mary Pat figure?, who were ostensibly trying to help me get out the door, but they had other things they were doing, too.
	  
	  Maybe the figures had to do with memories I'd related over the past couple of days. Hornbuckles and early ministry. Who in my family did Mary Pat know? Well, Bill/Karla, David a little, and Julian.
	  
	  The figure of Larry Smith was stern but someone I could learn from and wanted to please. Erin counselor suggested I work at establishing with my family that I'm still in touch with. Such a long life-time before Mary Pat was a part of my life.
	  
	  ---
	  
	  Couples counseling:
	  
	  1. I tried to be empathetic in asking about the grief she's going through, inquiring how she processes grief. Her answer was to explain that, in effect, I was the cause of her grief with regard to Sean. She fears that I will make him not welcome to come back to our house etc. etc. When I said that I don't wish him ill she did her family thing. "I love you, but ... I've always said that **family** is very important to me. You say that my (i.e. MP's) family doesn't accept you. But they tell me (i.e. MP) that they want to accept you but that you push them away etc. etc."
	  
	  The "I love you but, " is in the form of a "yes, but" which actually means the opposite. In this case it means that I (i.e. Dale) am not **family**.
	  
	  <!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->