-
- # 2021 / 06 / 10 / 23:31:39 /
  id:: 635aef12-654d-47ab-bd29-d9605dbc9107
	- tags: ['StPauls,discernment,June 2021,diet,health']
	  
	  Four agreements to live by: (From Steve Clyburn)
	  
	  1. Be impeccable with your word.....Speak with integrity. Say only what you mean. Avoid using the word to speak against yourself or to gossip about others. Use the power of your word in the direction of truth and love.
	  1. Don't take anything personally..... Nothing others do is because of you. What others say and do is a projection of their own reality, their own dream. When you are immune to the opinions and actions of others, you won't be the victim of needless suffering.
	  1. Don't make assumptions.....Find the courage to ask questions and to express what you really want. Communicate with others as clearly as you can to avoid misunderstandings, sadness, and drama. With just this one agreement, you can completely transform your life.
	  1. Always do your best.....Your best is going to change from moment to moment; it will be different when you are healthy as opposed to sick. Under any circumstance, simply do your best, and you will avoid self-judgment, self-abuse, and regret.
	  
	  —
	  apropos of our discernment process re. St. Paul's
	  
	  NOURISH YOUR FAITH. STARVE YOUR FEARS.
	  
	  “You won't have to look for any signs when your soul is ready to step into a new chapter; they'll appear on your path at the perfect moment. You won't have to question whether or not you're going in the right direction; your intuition will have already confirmed that for you. You won't have to force a connection with your soulmate when they first arrive; you'll feel right at home. There's no need to panic when the Universe is your number one supporter. What's meant to enter your life will show up as naturally as your next breath. What's meant to stay in your life will conquer any obstacle to remain by your side. Your fear encourages the belief that you're not worthy of your dreams. Your faith encourages the belief that you're worthy of so much more. Do what's right for your spirit. Nourish your faith. Starve your fears.” - Esther T., The 50-Minute Course To Destroy Your Fears
	  
	  ---
	  
	  Scroll back up to restore default view.
	  Women's Health
	  
	  'I Lost 70 Pounds After Applying The Advice From This Nutrition Book'
	  Lexi Tavares, as told to Emily Shiffer
	  
	  Wed, June 9, 2021, 8:00 AM·5 min read
	  
	  My name is Lexi Tavares (@healthydynamiclife), and I am 30 years old. I currently live as a digital nomad. I am founder and CEO of Healthy Dynamic Life. I read two nutrition and weight-loss books that changed the game for me, helped me switch to a plant-based diet, and change my outlook mentally too.
	  
	  For most of my life, I have been pretty fit. I grew up doing all sorts of activities, and I am very passionate about dancing. My mom shopped at the natural food store and made my family home-cooked meals. I considered myself pretty healthy.
	  
	  As I was growing up, though, I experienced body dysmorphia and disordered eating behaviors, as well as over-exercising. But I remember every day by lunchtime I would be so hungry I would end up overeating at lunch. Food controlled my life.
	  
	  Then, in 2018, I started gaining weight in a way that I never had before. As this was happening, I started to get super depressed. I would try to sleep as much as possible because I couldn’t bear to face myself or the world. I was relying on food as my source of happiness and pleasure.
	  
	  On top of being depressed, I was in constant physical pain. My upper, middle, and low back constantly hurt. My knees, hips, and ankles hurt. I had frequent stomach aches and gastrointestinal issues. I had migraine headaches. I had chronic respiratory infections and had frequent bacterial and yeast infections.
	  
	  My turning point came in February 2019 when my sister, who was living in Austin, Texas, invited me to come stay with her.
	  I was super excited to go visit my sister and lots of friends I had made when I lived in Austin about a year prior. But I realized that my friends in Austin had never seen me at this size before. I realized I had a huge motivation for myself to lose the excess weight I put on, and I wanted to do it as quickly as possible. But I also wanted to do it as healthily as possible.
	  
	  I had done *all* the fad diets before throughout my life. I would feel deprived, hungry, and end up gaining weight again. And I would get stuck in a cycle of restriction and bingeing. So I remained open to new, healthier approaches.
	  
	  One day, my mom recommended that I read the book Fit for Life by Harvey and Marilyn Diamond.
	  It took me a few days to read it, but it just made total sense. And after I read it, I decided that the next day I would start practicing their recommendations of:
	  
	  1. Eating fruit until noon (kind of a spin on intermittent fasting, without actually fasting entirely!)
	  1. Focusing on raw, whole foods until 4 p.m.
	  1. Properly combining the right nutrients for meals for easy digestion
	  1. Getting 30 minutes of exercise a day
	  
	  
	  <!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->