-
- # 2021 / 02 / 24 / 05:31:07 /
  id:: 63593b9d-1548-4fdd-b749-647db19e8fca
	- tags: ['February 2021,conflict']
	  
	  February 2021
	  
	  Yester even I left off watching TV after the news and the James Harriot BBC. I went to the toilet, trying to figure out how to proceed with the evening, cleaned my teeth, and was leaning toward reading – whether in the bedroom or living room I didn't know.
	  
	  She asked me, "Are you coming back?", as I was filling the humidifier. I said, "I don't know."
	  
	  The next time I came out, hearing the TV, I looked at what she had turned on. It looked like *This is Us*. I asked her what it was. It was. She had taken my responses as I wasn't interested, she said she liked the show, but she's willing to start over.
	  
	  How is it not clear that the painful thing is that the show was **our thing** but now it has become **her thing**. One more thing that is not us.
	  
	  Repeated refrain from Karen yesterday was, "What are you willing to give up for the sake of the marriage?" I had trouble answering, saying, "I've given up so much. What is it that would make a difference? I don't know what it would be."
	  
	  I don't remember that Mary Pat had said anything of substance, and certainly my perception is that she's not prepared to change anything important – family is too important to her, she says, implying that it's not for me.
	  
	  She has spent so much energy trying to figure out what's wrong with me. I'm no longer kind, she says, what used to be mantra she reminds. Perhaps, she has thought, it is the memory loss and cognitive decline that she has observed.
	  
	  I think, well that's a pretty low blow to hear for the first time in the counselor's office.
	  
	  ---
	  
	  A part of what turned my stomach yesterday and colored the whole day was the way in which Mary Pat just flipped and expected me to follow along.
	  
	  After spending 1½ hours trashing me, intending to hurt, she says on the way to the car, "Thank you for agreeing to work on the marriage." After that, for hours, she was **sweetness and light**.
	  
	  Ugh. It's not inviting. It reminds me of what turns my stomach about the Sjostrom's. They are 2-faced and don't say what they mean.
	  
	  One of the costs, I guess, of **family** being paramount.
	  
	  ---
	  
	  Karen's session. Processing our sharing at 9am in the morning – an appointment.
	  
	  She asked, "Remember the last time your spouse made you laugh."  Both of us couldn't really. I said that I thought it had to do with feeling safe. MP thinks of "safety" as physical safety. She has assured her counselors that there is no question about physical safety. She understands that when I say I haven't felt **safe** I mean something different. safety But she is unwilling to process or talk about our two different uses of the term. I didn't understand at first. Later in the day I thought it was because it would mean confronting the way in which she makes my world "unsafe."
	  
	  
	  <!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->