-
- # 2021 / 03 / 25 / 04:56:51 /
  id:: 63593b9d-881d-41fa-9cee-b70447bb765b
  collapsed:: true
	- tags: ['March 2021,conflict']
	  
	  I acknowledge regret today. I woke early and rehearsed in my mind over and over these words. I don't remember acknowledging regret. I knew that somehow regret was a sign of disease. I didn't want to acknowledge it; so I hid it from myself. I guess. Perhaps it is only that I able to admit a number of things today because I look about me and all there is is ruination. Broken relationships. I really don't know if there is a marriage to be saved at this point. Broken trust. She said I forced her to "throw her son under a bus," but I think that the fact that she has announced that I am never to defend her, that I don't have a right to quietly suggest to her son that he was being disrespectful to her, or to her sisters – I'm not family – that all these together add up to sand falling through my fingers.
	  
	  The regret, however, is about Bridget. I regret ever having entered into the relationship. She has poisoned my relation with members of my family: Owen, Shirley, Miriam, Lydia, Emma. The contempt of her waking out while I was preaching speaks loudly. It used to be that I could say that I was grateful for the 2 lights in my life. But they despise me, seem to have no positive memories of having been loved beyond measure. I regret having married her.
	  
	  ---
	  
	  In my walk I settled on what felt right to me. It's related to the insight above. My well known story about the husband and wife, celebrating their 50th anniversary, and the wife rejecting his gift of the heel of the bread. I feel that Mary Pat has consistently rejected my heel. Lydia and Emma also rejected my heel. (i.e. my favorite part of the loaf).
	  
	  In my story what do I imagine is the result of the blow-up between the man and woman? After 50 years do they separate? I think probably not. Something similar was in the movie *Leisure Seeker* that we watched the other night. Helen Mirren / Donald Sutherland. She discovers just before their end that he had had an affair with their long-time neighbor. She moved past it – with pain. But the plan all along had been to end their suffering.
	  
	  <!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->