-
- # 2021 / 01 / 19 / 06:28:57 /
  id:: 63574c37-2fa0-4964-85bc-7925115ba273
	- tags: ['January 2021,conflict']
	  
	  * I am grateful for:
	  * What surprised you this day?
	  * What did you learn this day?
	  * Daily affirmation: QuoteFeed
	  * How could I have made today better?
	  * What would make today great?
	  * Three (3( things that happened today
	  
	  * My assignment with Janet had been to talk about the nuance I mentioned in the session with re. saying "Thank you." I started that process with Erin, but we never finished it. However we had had several conversations, initiated by MP, about ways that as in introverts/extrovert we could build one another up. She expressed surprise that I was as introvert because she met me as a parish priest engaged in lots of extrovert activity. Covid has taught her how introverted I was. I told her about another measure of the personality, viz. whether one had lots of relationships or just a few deep ones. These few deep ones for me have been disrupted same as her many relationships.
	  * Also beginning to touch on difficult subjects. I just did this in my journal. Not good. We tried to work on these in the session. It was hard. Maybe we'll get somewhere. The assignment for next week is a letter written to MP.
	  
	  With Janet, each of us prioritized a list of 5 items. It was illuminating for me to see Mary Pat's version.
	  
	  I put it thus:
	  
	  1 God\
	  2.5 Spouse\
	  2.5 Self\
	  4 Family\
	  5 Sean\
	  
	  She put it:
	  
	  1 God\
	  2 Spouse\
	  3 Sean\
	  4 Family\
	  5 Self
	  
	  The proposed best choice was put as:
- God \
- Self\
- Spouse\
- Sean\
- Family
  
  This was an important movement for me. MP acknowledged that Janet's proposed order (or mine) was "probably right" but that her order was who she is. It reflects what I had called the "**codependency**" going on.
  
  The Zoom session confirmed the value of the breakout rooms in 317. They seemed to be engaged in trying to think critically and philosophically. MP confirmed.
  
  Also she seemed emotionally caught up in telling me that I was really, really good at reflecting back to the students what they had said in an affirmative way that also fed into what I was trying to teach.
  
  <!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->