-
- # 2021 / 03 / 19 / 18:24:04 /
  id:: 63593b9d-6c61-49b3-bb9c-229c72099615
  collapsed:: true
	- tags: ['March 2021,conflict']
	  
	  For conversation this morning I ventured to talk about some things that were a little bit *iffy*. But it was ok. I mostly felt heard.
	  
	  * I confessed that I had felt "unmoored" or "disconnected" the past week or so. She asked, "Why?" and I answered I didn't know. But in a few minutes I tried out that perhaps it was partly the result of having lost all the **upside** of teaching with the online / pandemic experience but not having a lot of positives. I have felt really disconnected with what's happening with my class. That's why I canceled 317 this week and why I totally spaced out 101 on Wednesday. She questioned me – the way she almost always does – by submitting that I had had some good sessions with 317. Just 10 days ago it's true that I had had the best Zoom session of all. The whole hour was spent listening to people who volunteered as well as were called on.
	  
	  I rather think that the disconnect from WU is more a symptom than a cause.
	  
	  * The 2^nd^ offering was related to talk about moving. She expressed her surprise at my sharing that I would move to one side of the country and she another. She offered that it made her feel continually guilty that she was making me live in a place I didn't want to. I then tried to express my own growth process. SelfReflection
	  
	  From the 70's I have tried to grow away from the inherited notion that the male is in charge and makes the ultimate decisions. I observed that when deciding between two choices, one choice wins and the other looses. Throughout 2 previous marriages I had tried to find a way to make it work, but when Mary Pat and I came together I decided that I would just give up all impulse to be the one in charge. "I'll go where you go," meant that.
	  
	  I reminded her of the interview I heard years ago about a prominent writer and her professional husband who made a pact to give one another some number of years to live in a place and then it was the other's turn. Mary Pat knew that Bill and Karla had done something similar. I suppose once upon a time I had shared this same stuff with her.
	  
	  I told MP that the reason I could defer to her was that I trusted that she would keep my best interests in mind as she decided. I didn't say to her that the past year has called that trust into question.
	  
	  Still working on it.
	  
	  ---
	  
	  Lecture on David Copperfield *Great Expectations.* The daring narrative experiment of having the narrator go through transformation – not being the omniscient narrator – and being the subject of the story intrigued me.
	  
	  I produced a paper with a combination of Obsidian and Zettlr. I gave up on org-roam. I may try out Emacs-Doom now. I just can't get a sense of how to make connections in note-taking – at least to the extent I sort of getting it with this TiddlyWiki thingy.
	  
	  <!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->