-
# 2021 / 02 / 02 / 09:24:32 /
id:: 63593b9d-6a6f-4188-b8b1-da33d21aaf5d

Feast of the Presentation. Such deep roots for me. Bill Nasser. Light candles.
	- ## Clericus
	  
	  USC A muddle. Policy same as in place for Christmas. Not shut down. Western NC and NC both shut down in person.
	  
	  Sally hoping to wrangle outdoor service at Easter. Jane maybe adding another service because she can't add without Bp taking the heat.
	  
	  Gordon's wife had a heart attack last Friday. He continues in person worship. Low attendance means social distancing. No one has contracted Covid from Church attendance. 10-15 ASA.
	  
	  In relating to Sally I remembered trajectories to get to where I am with HomeLiturgy
	  
	  1. Stuart and the Succoth service at ND. "I learned more about leading liturgy at that meal than 3 years at seminary."
	  1. 15 years of leading Seder meals. In particular the calling out of a "mother" to light the candles. Typically highlighting someone who was very present in congregation but always in the shadows.
	  
	  ---
	  
	  Phone call from Bill-Karla late in evening at Gini's house. He wanted to alert us in as much as we are anticipating our 2nd covid shot that David had had a strong reaction to the 2nd, lasting over 2 days. We shared stuff going on at each other's household.
	  
	  What stood out for me was that I heard a weariness in his voice that I have never heard before. It scared me for his well-being. Issues were:
	  
	  * 3 feet of snow late last week
	  * a friend from Berkeley just lost a spouse to an aneurysm
	  * they just had an appointment with Karla's nurologist. Her aneurysms are so so. The one operated on his shrinking. The others aren't really growing too much.
	  * Karla has an ongoing session with a physical therapist, working on mobility issues and leaking urine exercises. She had a run-in with the woman's insensitivity and so doesn't want to meet with her when she calls.
	  * the nurologist said that they should get the thing diagnosed with a urologist so that something can be prescribed
	  * Karla wants them to move to Denver and Bill is somewhat frantically trying to lighten the load to make that possible
	  
	  What do you dream about that would give you pleasure and satisfaction? He said "Go to a restaurant!"
	  
	  ---
	  
	  Mary Pat called to report that her mom is running a fever tonight. The nurse said that it can be the result of the part of the brain that controls temperature is beginning to shutting down. I heard real sorrow in her voice. We talked some and I recalled how many people have said that "dying is a part of living in the same way that birth is a part of it."
	  
	  <!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->