-
# 2021 / 01 / 27 / 06:41:18 /
id:: 63574c37-80ae-49ca-a4d7-9484b7ab3117
	- How Elon Musk spots a liar
	  
	  The problem is that anyone can say they’re the best at what they do, but it can be hard — and at times impossible — to know whether they’re telling the truth. [CNBC](https://www.cnbc.com/2021/01/26/elon-musk-favorite-job-interview-question-to-ask-to-spot-a-liar-science-says-it-actually-works.html)
	  
	  Luckily, Musk revealed his solution at the World Government Summit in 2017. He asks each candidate he interviews the same question: **“Tell me about some of the most difficult problems you worked on and how you solved them.”** SolveProblems
	  
	  Because “the people who really solved the problem know exactly how they solved it,” he said. “They know and can describe the little details.”
	  
	  Musk’s method hinges on the idea that someone making a false claim will lack the ability to back it up convincingly, so he wants to hear them talk about how they worked through a thorny issue, step by step.
	  
	  Exercise e.g. indoor walking exercise. Makes me think of Mo and her Jazzercize.
	  
	  ---
	  
	  St. Paul's
	  Phone call from Charlotte re. StPauls. She has in mind to do weekly phone calls. Taping for 2/14 & Ash Wednesday set for 2/11 @ 10 am. I will record sermons from home and the scripture readings will be recorded separately. [Idea to keep the gathering of people to a minimum]. She remembered hearing someone (expert) at the clergy talk warning that things might get worse, even though there is a small improvement now. Complacency perhaps the most dangerous.
	  
	  She reported that the gift bags were received well, and they are planning to take vials of ashes with a copy of liturgy to homes.
	  
	  Palm Sunday is 3/28 & Easter 4/4. Probably aim at taping and aim to get Palms, MT liturgy, Good Friday liturgy into people's homes.
	  
	  We'll wait to get feedback from Ashes effort to plan for what comes next. Taping in early March and then later for Holy Week?
	  
	  <!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->