-
- # 2021 / 04 / 12 / 14:02:52 /
  id:: 635aef12-7ac6-4ff8-b89b-b220b9975586
	- tags: ['April 2021,conflict']
	  
	  To Miriam, who asked if she could share her gift with Emma.
	  
	  > It was a gift. It’s not a gift if it comes with conditions, that would be an exchange. I’m working hard these days at not triangulating. Emma has harshly rejected every effort I have made even to make contact to say nothing of having a relationship. Nevertheless she would have received the same check as you if I had any contact information that would’ve made that possible.
	  
	  ---
	  
	  *Hemingway* by Ken Burns. Watching the first episode. I am personally drawn in. He grew up in Oak Park. Father a physician. Was it mother who used to talk about him?
	  
	  He said, "All you have to do is write one true sentence. Write the truest sentence that you know." I have this sense that I have been doing some of that in these last years of my life. That I am doing it even now. writing
	  
	  It reminds me of my mantra about preaching. "Seek to speak in complete sentences." But also, seek for that leadership of worship where people will say, "I'm glad I was here." So many people when I share those thoughts don't seem to understand.
	  
	  ---
	  
	  The end of one of his short stories (read by Edna O'Brien) goes, "... please, please, please, please, please (I don't know how many) stop talking." The speaker a woman who has been talking with her lover about having an abortion.
	  
	  It was striking to me, because I had just hung up the phone with Mary Pat. She had tuned me out when I had just got going, passionately talking about Linux and WU. But she had tuned me out. As if she spoke those words. And in the context of the story, where Edna O'Brien clearly hears that *pathos* of the woman, I ask myself, "What do I need to hear about myself in this?" How am I being self-centered? Only concerned with my vantage point, and missing the really important stuff?"
	  
	  I don't know.
	  
	  
	  <!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->