-
- # 2021 / 05 / 14 / 10:48:03 /
  id:: 635aef12-a3f1-4b84-b071-182a792fa2ee
	- tags: ['Dorothy Day,Jeremiah,May 2021']
	- ## Reflection from *Give us this day for today*
	  
	  > I can really relate to her passion. To her bewilderment. I learn that perhaps I need to identify with Jeremiah in a way I never have before.
	  
	  **An Invitation Confirmed**
	  
	  “Macrina,” the Lord said one day, “I haven’t heard an Amen for a long, long time.”
	  
	  “No more Amens from me, Lord,” I answered. “I can’t say Amen to dead and crumbling leaves, to blood poured out, and broken, ugly things. It’s obvious I’ve made a mistake, a wrong choice. I’m taking my baptism back.”
	  
	  “Macrina,” the Lord said again, “you didn’t choose me. I chose you. And I’m not taking your baptism back.”
	  
	  At that moment my frightened, wintered heart remembered Jeremiah, and I bowed my head and prayed, “Jeremiah, I identify with you in your lament to the Lord. I, too, feel duped! (Jeremiah 20:7-9) Somehow He’s got the best of me and I can’t get away. I’m standing here with my baptism in my hands wondering what to do with it. . . . I don’t know what to do with such demand or such love. But it’s too late. I’ve already accepted. I walked around a long time with that invitation in my heart before I said my Amen. But then one day I confirmed that invitation. I said yes to everything that God and the Church and all those faith-filled people who love me were asking of me. . . . [Now] I stand here not only with my baptism in my hands, but confirmed and fed and healed as well. God has hold of me and I can’t get away. I feel forever compelled to carry within me, and live out of me, these signs of God’s love. Yes, Jeremiah! We must be twins. There’s a fire burning in my heart too. And it’s stronger than the fear.”
	  
	  So once again I find myself proclaiming: Amen, my Lord, Amen!
	  
	  Sr. Macrina Wiederkehr, *Seasons of Your Heart*
	  
	  ---
	  
	  Watched the 1996 film on Dorothy Day: **Entertaining Angels**
	  
	  It reminded me of how much she has been the running theme of my life. Michael Stolpman was an echo of her. IHS in Honolulu. When I prayed with Noreen, visited Mary, fed the outcast at Stadium Park. The notion that God's is encountered in the most ordinary and mundane. That the God of the Universe could work through Episcopalians who have never been entirely comfortable with what it meant to be Episcopalian.
	  
	  *Macrina Wiederkehr, OSB, (d. April 2020) made her home with the Sisters of St. Scholastica in Fort Smith, Arkansas.*
	  
	  
	  <!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->