-
- # 2021 / 10 / 11 / 22:43:54 /
  id:: 635aef11-e17f-4fa0-b92c-675b9fd649ef
	- tags: ['October 2021,william blake,aldous huxley,book of the dead,Radium girls']
	  
	  Did you know some people call *The Book Of The Dead*
	  
	  **The Book Of Coming Forth Into Light?**
	  
	  That's beautiful.
	  
	  Oh look, I love this part.
	  
	  ---
	  
	  Mayest thou be at peace with me.  \
	  May I advance upon the earth.  \
	  May I crush the evil one.  \
	  May my arms become spears to thwart crocodiles.  \
	  May I live in the season of revolution.  \
	  May the light of my soul detect shadows of evil.  \
	  The doors of perception open.  \
	  Hey!  \
	  What was hidden has been revealed.  \
	  I am restless.  \
	  I smell a change coming.  \
	  The shape of truth is coming.  \
	  Let me fly to the far edge of sky.  \
	  Let me rest in the folds of the earth.  \
	  I am a child of eternity.
	  
	  ---
	  
	  This is the ending to movie *Radium Girls*
	  
	  The sisters had been fascinated by the Book of the Dead. This lines at the end (quoted above) seem to be in part taken from the opening of the Egyptian book of the dead.
	  
	  The **doors of perception** was what caught my attention. It is, first and foremost for me, from Aldous Huxley – cf. college days, and his experiments with **mescalin**. In reading about that I paid attention to the note that he suffered from **iritis** for many years.
	  
	  The metaphor itself is from William Blake.
	  
	  “If the doors of perception were cleansed every thing would appear to man as it is, Infinite. For man has closed himself up, till he sees all things thro' narrow chinks of his cavern.”
	  
	  ― William Blake, *The Marriage of Heaven and Hell*
	  
	  <!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->