-
- # 2021 / 09 / 18 / 07:10:29 /
  id:: 635aef11-74fd-4059-ac37-8c4f02620672
	- tags: ['September 2021,dream']
	  
	  dream this morning, stretching on through several "dozes" was filled with the characters of my life. Paolo was mixed in with a colorful array of Hawai'i people. The place of the dream was clearly Hawai'i, but it seemed more like New Zealand, as if it was filled with the places of my life. There wasn't a deep frustration about getting home as in so many of my dreams, but there was the challenge of coralling all the personalities. When I woke up I couldn't stop thinking about John Egan. That led to goings on at Rensselaer.
	  
	  It came up by name during this week as I observed to Charlotte and Henry that the two institutions I was involved with – during the time I have called the happiest in my life – have gone out of business.
	  
	  I'm not a wizard at picking winners or a recovery specialist. But I think I have an ability to accompany folks on a spiritual journey – if they want company. I felt that empathy-piece when Kathleen started our conversation by talking about the death of their Great Dane. I ended up ad-libbing a response, since I didn't know what to say, but I wanted to build up Kathleen. My response had to do with the desire not to get older by growing a **thick skin** and, with her help, observed that sensitive artist type have an ability to live life more fully and thus to experience death more fully.
	  
	  
	  <!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->