-
- # 2021 / 05 / 01 / 13:07:01 /
  id:: 635aef12-4d83-4147-81e2-de49ee945b04
	- tags: ['May 2021,conflict']
	  
	  From Mary Pat and read to me in couples counseling session 4/28/21.
	  
	  Dale:
	  
	  You have said that I have changed, and our relationship has changed, since Sean came. I agree that I have changed; a lot of events have caused significant change, even before last summer.
	  
	  Three years ago I had foot surgery that left me essentially an invalid for most of the year, very dependent on you for everything. Only recently have I felt completely back to normal; driving Sean to and from work was a positive influence on my independence. It may have seemed like I didn't need you anymore; I certainly didn't need you in the same way, but I always need your love and affection.
	  
	  • Two years ago I retired, after almost 50 years of teaching. That was a huge change. At first we traveled a lot, to Hawaii, to Ohio, to Florida, and I didn't miss teaching so much.  Then I was hired to do professional development with teachers, and that was interesting and fulfilling. COVID shut that down. I still haven't found my purpose, as many of the things I had thought about doing after retirement were blocked by COVID restrictions.  Perhaps I threw myself into Sean's rehabilitation more than I should have. I never meant to exclude you; in fact I looked forward to working with you to provide the assistance he needed. You have knowledge and experience in working with addicts and in the past had been very supportive and caring when it came to Sean.
	  
	  • My mother's health went into a steep decline in fall 2019, and worry about her and uncertainty about what I could do occupied me for the next 15 months. Now she is gone, and it was such a blessing to be able to be with her at the moment of death. The time I spent with my siblings this month was really wonderful. It reinforced my understanding of family. Mom and Dad taught us to love one another, and the people we introduced to our family (friends and lovers), to try hard to understand and accept each other especially when we disagree, to work out our differences even if it just means to agree to disagree. That has always been my understanding of family, and it's the relationship I want to have with you and with all the people connected with you.
	  
	  • Since the beginning of our relationship, 10 years ago, it has been the two of us. We did almost everything together; you even went to math conferences. Suddenly last summer we opened our home to another person. Certainly that changed things for all of us. We did not have children together, but this could be an opportunity to co-parent in our old age. I am so sorry if I misunderstood your reservations about inviting him to come in the first place, and if it seemed I was excluding you in any way. Sean will be with us a while longer. I don't see how we can throw him out; we committed to the Parole Board to provide him with a place to stay until he could live on his own. How can we work together for the next few weeks or months to reconnect with each other and work together to support Sean in his recovery?
	  
	  
	  <!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->