-
- # 2021 / 02 / 19 / 23:38:33 /
  id:: 63593b9d-3ece-436f-9dc6-299f5988cce4
	- tags: ['February 2021,conflict']
	  
	  Ended the day with a phone call to/with Bill. I have felt increasingly the odd one out here with the Sjostrom clan. Mary Pat has been (rightly so) focused on being with her siblings. I have thought a little about returning to Sean and Mary Pat and it leaves me feeling quite depressed.
	  
	  I think of one of the aspects of the death of a parent as being left with a kind of "fuck it" mentality. It's a kind of "this puts things into perspective sort of thing.
	  
	  Bill told me that his friend Phillipe is Jewish. He has gathered a bunch of Yiddish music for him. He told me that his parents are in Israel and are both survivors. I wondered, "How did I not register that more in the past?"
	  
	  We watched a movie *Instant Family* with Mark Wahlberg and Rose ...? of *Scandal*. It was corny but portrayed in a short span that trauma of forging family. Heart ache and taking the children to the emergency room. The deep joy the first time they come to you for aid as Mommy or Daddy. And then the leaving, the abandoning as I've experienced it.
	  
	  I know that part of what I have felt life has taught me is that there is no pay-off for loving and giving all of yourself. I think that's the lesson of the cross or Socrates. It was the lesson of Siddhartha.
	  
	  But as Bill observed, it's not the lesson that the Sjostrom family gives off.
	  
	  I learned from Katy that the foaming hand soap is just watered down handsoap. Google it. Bill had read that someone in *New York Review of Books* wrote the demise of Humanity will be AI. He and I both used to subscribe to it. He does again.
	  
	  I'm grateful that my back doesn't hurt as bad as it did. I'm glad to have kind of got back on track with my email and classes. Am I? To have finished with the required HR material re. abuse of various kinds. It makes me reflect on my own pedagogy – how the little 30 min. courses from HR are probably done to a "T" the expectations of electronic pedagogy. But it ain't **critical thinking.** I missed several questions which were distinguishing between "Quid pro quo" abuse and "Sexual harrassement." Quid pro quo is, I think, harder to prove.
	  
	  from Buechner on Grace:
	  
	  <!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->