-
- # 2021 / 02 / 25 / 06:22:04 /
  id:: 63593b9d-a8f7-4086-b155-4c0b1e626570
	- tags: ['February 2021,conflict']
	  
	  February 2021
	  
	  The familiar tune in *Outlander* the TV show we started last night. Words of Robert Louis Stevenson and familiar Scottish folk tune. [The poem ](https://www.poetryfoundation.org/poems/45949/sing-me-a-song-of-a-lad-that-is-gone)
	- ### Sing me a Song of a Lad that is Gone
	  
	  By *Robert Louis Stevenson*
	  
	  Sing me a song of a lad that is gone,\
	  Say, could that lad be I?\
	  Merry of soul he sailed on a day\
	  Over the sea to Skye.\
	  \
	  Mull was astern, Rum on the port,\
	  Eigg on the starboard bow;\
	  Glory of youth glowed in his soul;\
	  Where is that glory now?\
	  …
	  
	  [youtube ](https://youtu.be/-zQoQ1ckFxI)
	  
	  ---
	  
	  Lectio: Mark & Jesus saying everyone who follows must take up his/her cross. I heard "cross". Then Embrace your suffering. I ask, "How?".
	  
	  Lesson: It's not about me. And my suffering. Take a larger view.
	  
	  It's not about denying my personhood. It's not about choosing martyrdom over life.
	  
	  family. Mary Pat's family couldn't tolerate her for a few weeks. Katy went crazy. But I'm expected to allow a stranger into my home for a year or more. Ah well. Take the larger view. "What am I willing to give up?" Lost is a place, too
	  
	  ---
	  
	  The movie tonight ended with the *Offenbach* - *Barcarolle* , from '*The Tales of Hoffmann*'
	  
	  in an opera. Why do I know it? Raisins with almonds? No it was the tune from Furey's album.
	  
	  Zhao Marina
	  1 year ago
	  Uplifting, I was teased for being a nerd in school, but every time I hear this song, it just tells me to hang on, life IS beautiful.
	  
	  
	  <!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->