-
- # 2021 / 05 / 26 / 05:57:19 /
  id:: 635aef12-5197-4705-83f2-e120c697659f
	- tags: ['dream,MyFamily,May 2021']
	  
	  In my dream there was Dad as present and alive as he has been since he was alive. I had just arrived in Hawai'i. I was traveling alone. My luggage was lost for the moment. Earlier there had been a strange figure, who was either stalking me or following me to protect me. He/it was just a head, sitting on the ground. I was with people in that dream, but we were traveling and it was church-related. I was with young people and we had gone to an orientation of some kind. But the "head" announced at the end of it that my ride was gone. We had traveled there in something like the Miata, belonging to someone else, I think, and that person seems to have abandoned me and my companion. family – fathers
	  
	  Later, then, I was in a conference center sort of place when who should appear before me but Dad. I wasn't shocked to see him, but my first instinct was to avoid him. Then I decided to approach him. He was cordial and not shocked – maybe a little surprised – to see me. He was familiar and friendly to me. It then appeared that he was traveling with Clark Crandall and someone else and that the men were with young people, women, but they didn't seem to be wives. I thought they were daughters.
	  
	  I had shared with Joe and Tami last night stories about MyFamily.
	  
	  * Carolyn
	  * Shirley's "my other was an alcoholic and a nymphomaniac" and her promise to Bill that she wouldn't do that.
	  * Shirley as the lynch pin of alienation in my family
	  * said that my father had committed the greatest outrage in my family, so while his effort to get custody was put forward as a "Helen isn't a fit parent" that wasn't the whole story. That had been in response to Joe/Tami trying to identify the source of Shirley's anger at my mom.
	  
	  <!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->