-
# 2021 / 01 / 15 / 09:41:45 /
id:: 63574c37-54ba-4556-8640-fd39b9d26996

* I am grateful for:
* What surprised you this day?
* What did you learn this day?
* Daily affirmation: QuoteFeed
* How could I have made today better?
* What would make today great?
* Three (3( things that happened today

The way Tiddly works is somehow very sympathetic with the way my brain is working. I'm glad to have discovered it and it makes me somehow feel alive.

I could have done better with the ending. Sean was sitting next to her on his return from work. They were sharing an important stuff. She had evidently shared with him her excitement about being on TV. I said that what the two of them wanted to do with the money earlier today was commonly done with PayPal. She was defensive. Maybe or maybe not combative.

I came across a basic todo with re. Tiddlies and it included a todo function. If I work more and more in this it might be helpful. <https://www.linux-mitterteich.de/doc/peter/05_tiddlywiki/index.html>. I have just started work with the Transclusion capability. It is pretty cool. Seen in "TranscludeTitle" and here in the Examen text.

1. We went through 2 rounds of making appointments for vaccines. She recorded an interview with Charlotte NBC that played on TV. We ended up with appointments for next Monday.
1. I did the experiment with a potato battery. It's not complete for the sermon on Sunday..
1. So we go to bed estranged. Separately. Is this just the way it is? I couldn't let the **Cease Fire** be? Is it me who is not content with it. But she was the one who didn't recognize my **irony** when I was cynical about cease fire. I'm the weak one. I suppose.