-
- # 2021 / 01 / 26 / 06:29:03 /
  id:: 63574c37-b759-4ac6-a25e-e427d3618c27
	- tags: ['dream,January 2021']
	  
	  dream
	  
	  I was at a large service – was it a mass?, or just a talk? – in a kind of open space. John Paul II was celebrant so I stayed. I had 2 bags. The sermon mentioned a funeral. There were friends around but I was not directly with them. I was trying to get home or somewhere. One of the people I knew was beside me at a curio / coffee shop kind of place. I got what I wanted, but this other person handed me a picture with a little bag attached to it. Kind of reminding me of the movie we saw last night, "The Girl". It was about a poor Caucasian Texas girl, having lost her way in a life of abuse and abandonment tries to escape by becoming a "coyote." But she screws up her first effort and a mother drowns. She is left trying to deal with her guilt and what to do with this little girl. She takes her home and loves her and finds healing herself.
	  
	  The person I was with said, "It's on the house." I concluded that it was a ministry of this person – sort of a combination of Simon and Paul (SJ) at ND and my Marianist friends at Chaminade.
	  
	  While that was happening someone apparently stole my 2 bags, at least one of which was quite distinctive. Homemade? I was upset because of the wallet inside one of the bags and all that that entailed. I was trying to remember what "funeral". It was connected I think with why I was there. Only after waking could I make my memory work and decided I was trying to think of Ted Hesburgh.
	  
	  At that point I began to see connections with scattered aspects of my life. Notre Dame was a part of my reality when Bob Fitzpatrick first met me, that and teaching. It was the Roland Allen group and he was most recently come from diocese of Indianapolis. I thought that his work in Hawai'i had Roland Allen all over it – sort of coming into his own. But I wondered, "What about the lying? End justify the means? His brutal treatment of clergy? Insensitivity of his public treatment of clergy? His cowardice? ... and so on. I wondered about my long-standing association with Catholics – up to the present with Peter Judge.
	  
	  I thought about my bewilderment with the criticism of the new President by who? Archbishop in LA? What to make of the countless Catholics who support or supported Trump, seeing that as a triumph? I remembered that the Catholic Church has a long history representing the "Ancien Regime" and Abp Sheen – anti-semitism? – but 50 years ago there was still a large segment that identified with the working men/women, the unions and labor, social-justice and Caesar Chavez, marched in Selma, etc. CatholicDivideThey are still there, Tim Eden is witness to that, but such division and alienation!
	  
	  <!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->