-
# 2021 / 01 / 16 / 10:35:32 /
id:: 63574c37-0c2d-4fd6-8173-98bfcfac51d1
tags: ['January 2021,Winthrop']

* What was my favourite moment this week?
* How did I practice self-care this week?
* One moment where someone helped me
* What's something positive from this week that I can bring into next week?
* Who or what am I grateful for this week?
* One moment where I helped someone:
* Who or what is keeping me motivated and inspired this week?
* What do I want to let go of before next week?

Responding to current Discussion threads. in 317-s21 and 101-s21

“Earth's crammed with heaven,\
And every common bush afire with God,\
But only he who sees takes off his shoes;\
The rest sit round and pluck blackberries.”\

― *Elizabeth Barrett Browning*

Preaching preparation. MP didn't get any postive "wow" from my sermon. Back to writing board.

To Murray from Jacquie Lawson's cards:

Murray, I hope you're still doing email and get this message. We've been reminding ourselves for days now of your upcoming birthday. Now it's here. This card uses images from Australia; so it's more or less your ocean. Our ocean over here seems so far away, but you're still my brother. In fact you live closer to my other brothers than I do – they're in Arizona and California. I hope for good things for you. And I give mighty thanks for your presence in the world. Shalom, my friend.

Dale (& Mary Pat)

I was looking at Emily Dickinson quotes when I was looking for Browning piece above – all that was for my sermon for tomorrow. But I was reminded that Emily Dickinson resonates with me somehow. Miriam sent me a book. A kind of cool melancholy? A mystical sensibility in ordinary clothes?

MP asked me over dining room table, from the Karen assignment worksheets, "What do I imagine as the happiest thing I could do?" (Or something to that effect.) I thought, then answered, "I guess I'd have to say 'walking on the beach'." She said, "I was thinking the same thing."