-
- # 2021 / 05 / 29 / 11:42:50 /
  id:: 635aef12-ab4c-415a-a8fe-9113a3de6160
	- tags: ['May 2021,Church']
	  
	  Janet Brakefield, St. John's Winnsboro. They were doing 9am when outside to keep it in the cool hours. When they moved inside they went to 10am. Used to be 11am. Averaging 17-20. No circulation in main sanctuary.
	  
	  ---
	  
	  Dear Frank,
	  
	  I sent you the link to my sermons because of our friendship, thinking you might be interested. I would be happy to share it with the retired clergy or anybody else that might be interested. It is, again, <http://sermons-fr-hathaway.blogspot.com/>.
	  
	  I smiled broadly at your inclusion of the Koko Crater photo. My memories of my thrice-weekly discipline of climbing the crater is constantly with me. They help motivate me in my current efforts at spiritual/physical discipline, which includes a 3 mile walk every day. I generally listen to a lecture or blog. I am fond of "On Being" and "Poetry Unbound". I also continue to pay attention to a range of subjects connected with the courses I continue teaching at Winthrop. These include: Introduction to Religious Studies, Introduction to Scripture Studies, Modern Christian Thought, and Introduction to the Hebrew Bible.
	  
	  Along with the rest of humanity we have made huge adjustments over the last year plus. All of my teaching has been virtual since then. And my supply work has been creative and unlike anything we prepared for in seminary – back in what seems like an aeon ago. The request for my time as supply priest has increased substantially over the last couple of months, as more and more flexibility is available to the churches. I supply in the Diocese of North Carolina and in the Diocese of Upper South Carolina.
	  
	  Mary Pat retired from Winthrop University in the spring of 2019. That was the last time we saw you all and we did a good bit of travel on the mainland – all up until we didn't any more. March 2019. So we anticipate a slow return to traveling, and even today beginning to plan for a cruise in 2022. Mary Pat's mother died in February, and that has impacted us in both larger and smaller ways. My children are spread from Indiana to Colorado and the west coast. My oldest grand child is scheduled to graduate from college next year. The youngest just entered kindergarten.
	  
	  
	  <!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->