-
- # 2021 / 07 / 15 / 10:02:56 /
  id:: 635aef11-e0c0-4722-b13f-0bb0e85d3fb1
	- tags: ['Church,Interim-Ministry,July 2021']
	  
	  David Whyte – the journey. Interim meeting. 6 of us. <https://wordsfortheyear.com/2015/08/13/the-journey-by-david-whyte/>
	  
	  imagery of Pacific northwest. Testament to friend's courage –leaving relationship. leaving with dreams that you have shared together.
	  
	  * **Catherine Massey**: 3 older school age girls in Charlotte. Julie Murdoch joining next month. part-time priest in charge Good Shepherd at Burlington.
	  * **Edmund Pickup**, 8  mos. St. Mark's @ Huntersville. Through Aug. 8. Leaving with spouse to Seattle, WA extended trip. Poem: endings are not just endings, but beginnings. Don't do fishing, golf, gardening, ... Church is the thing he loves to do. Looking to maybe traveling the country via Amtrak.
	  * **Susan Keedy**, Trinity Episcopal Church 3 1/2 years at?? Mount Airy? Fuquay Varina? (something Marina?). Fear that the cong. would just jump at the first candidate. But they were confident enough to say, "no". Moving on. On a long trek. Only now beginning to open up. Small space. Filling slots like ushers.
	  * **Jill Beimdiek**, 10 mos St. Pauls, Smithfield. Leaving end of Sept. Yesterday had conversation with CPG contact. Unkind, inflexible, conversations about returning to "normal". Altar up against the wall. They think of her as a functionary with a collar. 65 y/o. She's obviously discouraged. Planning on playing with paint in retirement. Remembering the negative implants "you are not a painter" from kindergarten. St. Margaret's convent, house in Ducksbury (sp.)
	  * **Darby Everhard**: St. Mary's at Highpoint. 9 mos. contract. It's been a good gig. 72 y/o. Living in Winston, NC.  22 year marriage. many grandchildren.  Beach vacations planned by her husband. Realizing it is difficult to leave places. She focuses on administrative issues. She needs to step back from doing this kind of work.
	  * **Patricia Grace**: St. Stephen's in Durham for 6 mos. In end-stage kidney failure. Looking at kidney transplant. 65 y/o. – looking at end of life. Interim is all about endings and beginnings. Looking at training for being "clergy coach". Long term neglect of congregation. Highly affluent. Come to "be served." Unaware of who they are and of the world in which they live. Hard to figure what to do in the course of a year. Big motivation to not make people angry, unhappy.  She's an administrative person like Darby. What can you do in a year. There's no there, there.
	  
	  **Catherine** seems to meet with congregations regularly, "listening sessions".
	  
	  Training tools, e.g. "DRIVE" a metric to find what energizes you and what drains you. Take a class to learn to think differently. Across the country "interims" are highly needed even if not valued. Catherine's colleagues having trouble to find the likes of us who are in the middle, ...  Perhaps look at "coaching" to support those who come in to follow the one's who left.
	  
	  **Susan** is shepherding the search committee – give answers that give insight into who the church, the nature of that congregation. e.g. that congregation is that they are "competent at being church."
	  
	  St. Francis Springs in Stoneville. (Greensboro) "Catholic Hilton". (used to convent food at St. Margaret's is satisfactory)
	  
	  **Susan**: Some congregations are bound to their problems, "stuck". Need more time and a trained intervention – more than a year. A year might give you time to work through "grief" – but more time needed to change?
	  
	  Leave a letter to the successor as you leave a congregation. **NB** List with bullet points of the problems?
	  
	  **Catherine**: This diocese for 10 years has had an approach to interim ministry that is short. That a reaction to interim ministry of 80's which was more "deconstruction". Now looking for people to walk along and put flags on the things to pay attention to. Feels "abrupt". Jill was coming into a place that had the longest serving rector in decades. Connecticut has gone **to no more interims** cause they can't find any.
	  
	  **Susan**: The church has always been in change. Rather we need to turn our face to the future. Stir up possibilities.
	  
	  **Darby**: We are all interims. Love them and move on to what God has called us to.
	  
	  **Darby**: help the vestry/congregation face issues that are going on. Honesty? Plant seeds.
	  
	  **Dale**: ask the question "Why should there be an Episcopal Church in this community?" **Patricia** has repeatedly asked this question to her congregation in Raleigh.
	  
	  **Walter Brueggheman**: when people are in special grief or pain, they don't have time for **The common Good**.  (**Patricia**) facing the question of times: meeting at 9:30 which is unpleasant for 8 o'clock folks as well as 10 o'clock folks.
	  
	  **Patricia** observed that good things happened during time of Covid. e.g. Old people doing Zoom. Projecting things on the wall.
	  
	  Next meeting Aug 19. **Ed** leaving to travel. **Darby** leaving.
	  
	  
	  <!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->