-
- # 2021 / 03 / 31 / 14:53:30 /
  id:: 63593b9d-6de7-4b10-a04b-3039abb886b3
	- tags: ['Bible,March 2021']
	  
	  Courtney using the **Passion Bible**. <https://youtu.be/2EtXBxAuZ3g> provides a review to argue that it is an "interpretive paraphrase" or perhaps a "targum" which is a paraphrase with commentary additions. Seemingly a charismatic version that would be opposed by evangelical type. "Enhancing the likeability of the Bible." For "hyper charismatic" types.
	  
	  ^Ephesians\ 2:13^ But now in Christ Jesus you who once were far off have been brought near by the blood of Christ. ^14^ For he is our peace; in his flesh he has made both groups into one and has broken down the dividing wall, that is, the hostility between us.
	  
	  ---
	  
	  I made some progress in notes and rough ideas about the sermons for Easter. I spent too many hours on reinstalling MX-plasma onto the desktop in the office. I had multiple graphics issues with the Chromebook. Then I became persuaded that I had an insoluble problem with the sound card on the Desktop. So I went for it with MX-Plasma. So far I'm really pretty pleased with both the feel and the stability of what I'm dealing with. I had to compile Emacs and that was quite an ordeal. But it's done and it runs very nicely in v. 28. Samba continues to be inscrutable, but Dropbox and pCloud are working. In fact because I preserved the "home" partition, a lot of things just kind of naturally flowed into working order.
	  
	  I'm still not very clear about what is different using the "Plasma" interface. It's not X-11 or GTK I think. Both of those things were used to compile emacs and I couldn't see that there was anything else.
	  
	  But tomorrow I've got to get to work on grading. Sermon in the background?
	  
	  <!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->