-
- # 2021 / 02 / 10 / 06:57:04 /
  id:: 63593b9d-bc21-4f47-8371-0737fd08e9bf
	- > On February 10, 1990, Nelson Mandela was released after twenty-seven years in a South African prison. He had been sentenced to life imprisonment for plotting to overthrow his government as part of the African National Congress (AFM), which stood in opposition to the ruling National Party’s apartheid policies. While imprisoned he became one of the most influential black leaders of South Africa. After the apartheid policy was defeated through nonviolent struggle, Mandela became South Africa’s first black president.
	  
	  Bill gets vaccine. Turns 67.
	  
	  ---
	  
	  Watched the latest *This is us*. Title is **There.** Jack was always "there" in  Kevin's mind. The show was about "fathers" and also "sons". Me committed to being better than my father. Owen to being better than me. All of us not able to see our own strengths. fathers
	  
	  It brought tears to my eyes. And the running plot thread was that Kevin was trying to get somewhere for a family "there" time, the birth of his "twins". Randall and (his wife) calling on cell phone to Madison, saying they were "there" for her. Staying on the line to talk while she was emotional and feeling abandoned.
	  
	  I'm on my way tomorrow to just such an effort. Trying to be there for Mary Pat in a way that I could not be for Bridget. The relevance for me being "there" for Sean is not lost on me. Earlier in the day, though, I was committed to leaving if Sean was going to be staying.
	  
	  <!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->