-
- # 2021 / 03 / 22 / 08:25:15 /
  id:: 63593b9d-3e1a-4dde-9d4c-93960a62fd8e
  collapsed:: true
	- dream on waking:
	  
	  MP and I were at some kind of event. Felt like southern Jefferson Co. We needed to leave. There was back and forth I think with expectations, but finally I was frustrated at waiting for her to finish whatever. I began to walk. There was hope that we would connect – at the car? down the road? There were lots of people. Lots of construction. I was walking north. We didn't connect. Then my phone went on the blink. Rebooting. Not connected to the grid. I was unable to reach her. I kept walking. I was in a big building. People like at a convention. I ran into Peter Judge and someone, like Jean from my class. I thought, "Well, I'm saved." but they weren't really helping me.
	  
	  I woke.
	-
	- Worked on:
	  
	  * Palm Sunday liturgy
	  * Easter music
	  * Palm Sunday sermon
	  * Presentation for 317 tomorrow
	  
	  Subject is heavy and deep, though the presentation is fairly light. It is comprehensive in scope, however. All the kinds of knowledge developed over the past 400 years or so and how it impacts theological inquiry.
	  
	  ---
	  
	  I have really felt a kinship with "Claire" from *Outlander* on **Netflix**. Her time traveling back to 18th c. Scotland is a love story that I resonate pretty deeply with. Her 'love of my life" was a Scottish highlander of a former time. And I can sense that as I am caught up in the story. What is it? The love? The empathy (or deeper) with another time, another story? Time Travel
	  
	  ---
	- <!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->