-
- # 2021 / 03 / 07 / 00:05:42 /
  id:: 63593b9d-209d-4cc7-aa9e-4b7b05fb6354
  collapsed:: true
	- tags: ['March 2021,conflict']
	  
	  Such a horrendous alienation from yesterday. I'm not secure in knowing what precipitated it. I'm inclined to think it was raising the issue of Sean in our "conversation" time. I said that it had seemed clear that she was not interested in what I think or feel about the matter. She responded, "I do care what you feel." And I spoke. I spoke about a number of things Linda and I had talked about. And by the end of the day it felt like Mary Pat hated my guts. She saw it the exact opposite of course.
	  
	  I am much better off not speaking at all. She may leave and end the marriage anyway. It seems like that is what she really wants. It will somehow prove her right. It's so important that she be right and I be the villain.
	  
	  ---
	  
	  Carolyn Hornbuckle's funeral was yesterday. <https://www.legacy.com/obituaries/name/carolyn-hornbuckle-obituary?pid=197842911>
	  
	  The last time I was with Carolyn was many years ago now. I was blessed to be a part of the funeral of John in Virginia. Now, seeing the photos of yesterday's memorial, I am emotionally very present. Carolyn, you were an important part of my life and of my family. I give thanks. I sang in my sermon today. I don't usually do that. I sang: "Amen. Amen. Amen."
	  
	  —
	  
	  Insight of the day: seeing Shirley's Facebook page that now features a photo of Shirley and Carolyn, and talking about that with Mary Pat who had talked about the things she can't talk to about her mother now that she's gone – I thought perhaps our Mom's dissatisfaction with girls was related to having been forced to give up her first born child – a girl!
	  
	  <!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->