-
- # 2021 / 02 / 11 / 17:38:59 /
  id:: 63593b9d-49c3-42d3-a085-a0ff444b9a3f
	- responding to email today:
	  
	  Hilda, I am deeply touched by your email, and of course I don't mind you writing. I am grateful that you have found the kind of hope that you obviously in our course. There's a real confluence of experiences. In the last half hour I have returned to Dayton, OH, for the 2nd time in 10 days. My mother-in-law died on Sunday and the funeral is tomorrow. We have kept my mother's ashes on our mantel at home for 2 years since she died, waiting for the opportunity to gather some of the family to spread her ashes at Myrtle Beach where she lived for a time. My wife reminded me of one of the sacred experiences I shared with a woman in Hawai'i. Her son had died of AIDS in the 1990's. She was raised in Hawai'i but spent her adult life on the faculty of the University of Missouri. She would return every year to commemorate spreading her son's ashes from the top of Diamond Head. During the years of knowing her she had asked me to accompany her on the climb and offer blessings at the place on top. The sacred is all around us. Thanks be to God.
	  
	  Faithfully,
	  Dale
	  
	  To see a World in a Grain of Sand
	  And a Heaven in a Wild Flower
	  Hold Infinity in the palm of your hand
	  And Eternity in an hour (Blake)
	  
	  Sent to Greg Johnson
	  
	  Serendipitous that you send the message now. I’ve driven 9 hours through sleet and snow to be with my wife at the funeral of her mother which takes place tomorrow morning. I’ve just responded to a former student writing me on the occasion of a grandson’s divide. And for her I recalled a sacred time I used to spend annually with a parishioner whose son died of AIDS and whose ashes were spread from the top of Diamond Head.
	  
	  I’m ok. Teaching religion 101 and history of modern Christian thought. Supplying at several small churches during a time of pandemic. One of the churches is simultaneously dealing with a rector who is presumably dying from lung cancer.
	  
	  Life isn’t boring. How about you?
	  
	  Dale
	  
	  <!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->