-
- # 2021 / 05 / 11 / 09:19:45 /
  id:: 635aef12-bfd9-4dbe-9311-73e916b43cec
	- tags: ['Owen,May 2021']
	  
	  I thought I might try to find the words to express your vital place in my life. There may not be anything I say here that is surprising to you. Then it's only a useful exercise for me. Some of what I want to say I have taken for granted that you knew. I could be wrong. I have been wrong about so many things in my life. Many times my instinct was right. Too often, I think, my stamina wasn't vibrant enough.
	  
	  I think of how I responded to the two times I took leader falls while rock climbing. Each time my rope and anchors held and the person “on belay” caught me — it might have been Mark Jansen on both occasions. In his adulthood he has suffered from debilitating mental illness. My response was to become more and more afraid of rock climbing, and of falling generally, that eventually I couldn’t do it at all. I went from the fearlessness of youth to continually telling myself “I am a coward.” It wasn’t true, of course, but became a linchpin for my ability to go into uncomfortable settings and do what needed to be done. Sometimes grace was palpable. Sometimes not. But it was always real.
	  
	  My determination not to have children seems connected with those inner messages. It started with a strong determination not to have children. Various decisions ensued that felt to me like the "cowardice" I told myself about my climbing experience. Then in the time it takes God to wink an eye, I found myself in the delivery room. I had been utterly wrong about the decision not to have children. As Chesterton said of Christianity: "The Christian ideal has not been tried and found wanting; it has been found difficult and left untried." So much I didn't know. It had been a challenging time during delivery. Obviously your mother had to endure things I would never have to go through myself, except in so far as my empathy could carry me there. We didn't know the gender. The cry. Then the doctor asked, "What's his name?"
	  
	  I cried and cried and cried. I had not cried for years at that time. I had accepted the criticism of others that perhaps I wasn't able to cry or express emotion. Then like a river bursting its banks, through a wash of tears, I responded, "Owen".
	  
	  I can not begin to relate to you how many times I have looked back on those tears of joy. I cannot tell you how many times over the years I have related to others that experience. Often the words have been cathartic for the person who heard them. They broke a logjam to be sure. They were a healing from hurts that went back probably to the general time that my parents divorced. When I sat in the waiting room of a hospital, a great-grandmother who had just lost another family member to a dramatic death, the other pastor, a Buddhist priest, on the other side, and I didn't know what to say or how to respond, those tears showed me the way. Somehow the words I would choose would prove inadequate, but I remembered the tears. Love would prevail.
	  
	  So many are the ways that your birth saved my life. Try to count the times you have gone ahead and done the things you said to yourself you couldn't do. It's at least that many times.
	  
	  > What thou lovest well remains,
	  >
	  > the rest is dross
	  >
	  > What thou lov’st well shall not be reft from thee
	  >
	  > What thou lov’st well is thy true heritage (Ezra Pound *Canto 81*)
	  
	  He wrote this after the catastrophe of the 30's and 40's and his calamitous part in the history of fascism, for which he was imprisoned and caged like an animal.
	  
	  After leaving the darkness of the madness of silence, in his final years he wrote:
	  
	  > Can you enter the great acorn of light?
	  >
	  > but the beauty is not the madness
	  >
	  > Tho my errors and wrecks lie about me.
	  >
	  > and I cannot make it cohere
	  >
	  > If love be not in the house there is nothing,
	  >
	  > The voice of famine unheard. (from *Canto 116*)
	  
	  Your birth, those tears, helped me to understand in ever deeper ways. When I first read Pound in my early 20's, I knew his words resonated somehow deep within me. There was a longing perhaps. But you, Owen, allowed me learn something about love. You taught me deeply and to the quick. Not that I haven't loved others since, and recognizing that I didn't know how I had loved your mother until you were in your teens, I date my entrance into love to the time of your birth. Those tears at your birth have shown me the way through the decades of my life. "The errors and wrecks lie about me" to be sure. But I have done some things well. I could not have done them without you. You showed me that I could.
	- <!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
	- Jim & Sharon (neighbor of Peter & Christina) conversation at Peter's retirement party. Several related insights. I said Most people want to be **Right** but it is more important to be **present**.
	- How respond to people being blatantly racist (or gender issues, sexual etc) in your presence. Options:
	- 1. ignore it to keep the peace
	  1. confront and cause conflict
	  1. challenge and help to bring about change
	  1. ??****
	- WH Auden 3 things worth talking about: sex, politics, and religion. But in the last few months I thought I acknowledged that there was a 4th worth talking about.