-
- # 2021 / 05 / 21 / 06:19:42 /
  id:: 635aef12-19df-46c9-8d85-543c976af46e
	- tags: ['Lydia,May 2021']
	  
	  I evidently lost a whole series of edits when I was reflecting on the visit with Lydia.
	  
	  Nick's birthday Sept 1 (or 3) 1982. He's a father-figure to Lydia. His oldest is 11 years Lydia's junior.
	  
	  Lydia seems motivated to get her degree. Nick admires her for her skill with children. She acknowledge having learned how to respond to children while at her old job.
	  
	  They reported that Lydia cried and cried at the thought that her trip next month will likely be her last.
	  
	  Nick clearly wants to impress us – but at the same time he is kind of a simple, this is what you get, sort of person – all in a good way.
	  
	  Lydia seemed to relate well to Mary Pat. Perhaps she appreciates now the dynamics that existed as Mary Pat and I came together. She and Nick have "had 2 Christmases" together, but Nick's divorce only became final in November 2020.
	  
	  <!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
- # 2021 / 05 / 21 / 22:28:09 /
  id:: 635aef12-1055-4179-8333-7f54becde2cc
	- ## Reflection
	  
	  **Joy and Peace—Whatever Happens**
	  
	  *And when Jesus had said this, he said to Peter, “Follow me.”*
	  
	  It seems to me that I have greater peace and am close to God when I am not “trying to be a contemplative” or trying to be anything special, but simply orienting my life fully and completely towards what seems to be required of a man like me at a time like this.
	  
	  I am obscurely convinced that there is a need in the world for something I can provide and that there is a need for me to provide it. True, someone else can do it, God does not need me. But I feel He is asking me to provide it.
	  
	  At the consecration of my Mass I suddenly thought of the words: “If you love me, feed my sheep!”
	  
	  The wonder of being brought, by God, around a corner and to realize a new road is opening up, perhaps—which He alone knows. And that there is no way of traveling it but in Christ and with Him. This is joy and peace—whatever happens. The result does not matter. I have something to do for Him and, if I do that, everything else will follow.
	  
	  Thomas Merton, *Journals*
	  
	  Thomas Merton (1915–1968) was a Trappist monk of the Abbey of Gethsemani. He is widely esteemed as a writer and spiritual master.
	  
	  
	  <!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->