-
- # 2021 / 01 / 24 / 13:26:51 /
  id:: 63574c37-7506-4e6a-878a-fc585a25c136
	- tags: ['January 2021,conflict']
	  
	  Working on 317
	  
	  * I am grateful for:
	  * What surprised you this day?
	  * What did you learn this day?
	  * Daily affirmation: QuoteFeed
	  * How could I have made today better?
	  * What would make today great?
	  * Three (3( things that happened today
	  
	  * I have finished all but the discussion thread for Module Ch. 12. I need to divide groups for that which I will do tomorrow.
	  * I have written a sample paper for example.
	  * I'm not sure about the last paper. Perhaps just a reflection on one of the writers.
	  
	  Another altercation tonight. I lost patience when I responded, "Whatever" to MP having arranged with Sean that he was going to bring down Christmas boxes. I was never a part of her plan, but then she said, "You help Sean and I'll do the dishes." Well, fuck, Sean can help me or fucking forget it. She stopped talking, told Sean to cooperate with her. All communication stopped.
	  
	  I'm just fed up.
	  
	  MP was tired all day, she said. She wondered why. I assume it was depression. She had several conversations with her sisters about their mother. Good day? Bad day?  The sisters are worn out. I don't know what the story is. She's not going home, so she's cut off.
	  
	  I don't have anything to say. She doesn't volunteer. She's got plans and what not with Sean. Pizza, he'll pick up. But we're paying. She went shopping, as much for him as for me.
	  
	  I could have made today better for everybody if I hadn't lost my patience and been a calm, "Yes dear, whatever you say." But I'm just not there. I could relate to what I read about Wittgenstein being deeply depressed in Austria, trying to be a primary school teacher – trying to be fulfilled by being a primary school teacher.
	  
	  
	  <!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->