-
- # 2021 / 09 / 04 / 09:41:40 /
  id:: 635aef11-7163-41ba-a6ed-85d8ec093b0f
	- In 1958 he received the Nobel Peace Prize. He lived to the age of 90 and died in his hospital on September 4, 1965.
	  
	  “It is not enough merely to exist. It’s not enough to say . . . ‘I do my work well . . . I’m a good churchgoer.’ That’s all very well, but one must do something more. Seek always to do some good somewhere. —*Albert Schweitzer*
	  
	  ...
	  
	  During the pandemic we witnessed the disastrous impact of those “hostile in mind” to public health protocols and mitigation efforts. We also saw hostility manifest itself in our unwillingness to listen to those with whom we disagree. Our collective aggression and division were on full display.
	  
	  In the face of this disunity, I am drawn to Samuel Taylor Coleridge’s more helpful (if esoteric!) “esemplastic imagination”: **our ability as humans to take two concepts which do not coexist in nature and combine them into a new reality. Disparate things become part of a unified whole—the very definition of being “open in mind.”**
	  
	  As children our imaginations flourished, and anything was possible. As adults too many have allowed their imaginations to atrophy, giving way to cynicism rather than possibility. Jesus, lord of the Sabbath, reminds us to remain firmly grounded, holding fast to the hope of the Gospel. Peace is possible. Concern for the common good is possible. Nurture these possibilities. Jesus sustains our life, shows us the way, and will accompany us to eternity.
	  
	  Sr. Julia Upton
	  
	  *Julia Upton, RSM, is Provost Emerita at St. John’s University in New York. She is the author of Worship in Spirit and Truth: The Life and Legacy of H. A. Reinhold.*
	  
	  
	  <!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->