-
- # 2021 / 04 / 11 / 16:42:32 /
  id:: 635aef12-b055-471b-b686-a29a2ae518c7
	- tags: ['April 2021,love']
	  
	  From MP's facebook page (repost)
	  
	  Anne Lamott
	  Yesterday at 2:19 AM  ·
	  It’s not every day a girl turns 67. I never thought I’d see 18, and then 21, and then 30, and then fifty! Half a century old. 17 years ago. And now here I am on Medicare, married two years ago to the coolest guy, with feet that hurt almost all the time, a mind that scares me with its increasing forgetfulness and snags, and a heart so filled with love some days that I feel like a moony teenager and probably should not be behind the wheel.
	  Other days, not so much.
	  
	  It’s frustrating to lose cognitive function, and for everything to ache the day after a hike. I take some medicine at night but ten minutes later, I can’t be positive if I took it or not, and I have to compensate in a dozen ways for my constant distraction. I got a car five years ago designed for people who probably should not be driving. It has Keebler elves hidden behind the dashboard that beep when I am about to hit another car, or when the car in front of me has moved. The elves wipe at their forehands at each near miss.
	  
	  This is SO not who I am. You’ve got to believe me. I was the smartest girl in my algebra class junior year. I was a tennis champ. Now when I get out of bed in the morning, I limp around like Walter Brennan, and then I limp around off and on all day trying to remember what I am limping around looking for. There’s a story in the new book about accidentally taking the dog’s medicine, which was banned for humans by the FDA. I called the vet and sad, “Oh, I’m sure you get this all the time.” She said No, not really.
	  
	  Yet this might be the happiest I’ve ever been. The original title of Dusk Night Dawn was The Third Third, about the great blessings of being older—the self-forgiveness, the grace of myopia, of not seeing everyone’s flaws so clearly, the pleasures of a much quieter life, of slower and more attentive walks. But more than anything, the great blessing, the reason for my deep faith in life and God, is the minuet of old friendships.
	  
	  As John Merrick, the Elephant Man said, “My life is full because  know that I am loved.” That is exactly and 100% my truth. I learned in the third third of my life that love is all there is, that we are Love with skin on, that Blake was right when he wrote that we are here to learn to endure the beams of love. Love can be hard. We’re good at hard.
	  
	  I wrote in the new book, “Love is gentle if sometimes amused warmth for annoying and deeply disappointing people, especially ourselves. Love is someone who will draw near when you cry. Love plops in front of the TV with a bowl of popcorn and you. Love plops but love also flies. Love reveals the beauty of sketchy people like us to ourselves. Love holds up the sacred mirror. Love builds rickety greenhouses for our wilder seeds to grow. Love can be reckless (Jesus is good at this), or meek as my dog, or carry a briefcase. Love is the old man in the park teaching little kids to play the violin; much time spent tuning, the children hearing their way into the key he is playing. Love tiptoes and love lumbers like an elephant, it naps on top of your chest like a cat. It gooses you, snickers, smooths your hair. Love is being with a person wherever they are, however they are acting. Ugh. (A lot of things seem to come more easily to God.)
	  
	  My life is full and I am grateful to the point of tears on my 67th birthday because I know I am loved. I just wanted to share that with you.
	  
	  
	  <!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->