-
- # 2021 / 05 / 22 / 08:22:58 /
  id:: 635aef12-dff1-402f-ab48-1d627a4c1635
	- tags: ['MyFamily,alienation,May 2021']
	  
	  Among her sisters, Rita stood out for her extraordinary spirit of obedience. In a test, her superior ordered her to water and care for a dead vine in the garden. Faithfully she carried out her assignment each day. (St. Rita is widely invoked as a patron of hopeless causes.) ( From *give us this day* today)
	- ## Where We Stand
	  
	  “Comparisons are odious.” I first heard the saying when I was growing up, and I loved it. The quote reminded me that comparing myself to others often led to pain and anxiety. Whether I worried that others were better than me or had a false sense of superiority, the result inevitably felt “odious.” And yet I did it anyway. ...
	  
	  ---
	  
	  Phone call with Bill-Karla. Karla related that the estrangement story goes round and round in our families. With re. hers that she and Karen knew that their step-mother Mary didn't like them. Or didn't like their mother. The 2 of them had been friends in high school.
	  
	  As to her father, there was deep estrangement, but Karla reported that what had made all the difference was that her father, twice a year, took her out to lunch and asked her what was going on her life. i.e. really listening. She kind of suggested that the rest of the time her father disapproved of Karla.
	  
	  alienation
	  
	  He reported that Owen came out pretty sweet financially with his surgery (various insurance payouts). He also observed that there is a nexus with Owen/Shirley/Bridget that leaves him cut off from much of the rest of the family – including Mo apparently. Shirley has given up communicating with David, and in her note to him commented that our mother had stopped being a good parent in 1959 (before David was born).
	  
	  He reports that Emma is now living in California. She is teaching in Sunnyvale (Silicon Valley) and living in San Jose. He thinks maybe teaching special ed kids? Karla has seen on Facebook that Emma now "has another degree."
	  
	  ---
	  
	  <!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->