-
- # 2021 / 02 / 20 / 23:22:56 /
  id:: 63593b9d-4ce7-4657-8852-b8ad09144d85
	- Tomorrow is Julian's birthday. We made it home safely. There were so many trees in Kentucky bent like shepherds' crooks from the ice hanging from them. I was captivated with the water cycles spouting from the fissures in the rock hewn roadways through the mountains. I took pictures but couldn't capture it. My back seemed to be getting better as we traveled toward South Carolina. Yet driving to Rock Hill seemed like driving to a prison camp. From one house to another, they were both locked in skeletons and phantoms I'd rather not be involved in.
	  
	  Help.
	  
	  Tomorrow – just a few minutes – it will be Julian's birthday.
	  
	  An example:
	  
	  Mary Pat was being wistful about her mother. I made the observation that I thought it likely that Karla's mom's death and our mother's role in that had helped (at least) to cement Bill & Karla as a couple. For better or for worse through the years they were connected. Mary Pat asked about the parentage. Karen, Karla ... Jeff. The other half siblings on Mary's side of things. Russ? Karla's dad?
	  
	  I began to say, "I feel really inadequate ...", intending to go on about how I don't really know the lineage there and I really should, as a brother. But Sean was standing in the doorway. He said, "Good night, guys. I'm sorry for interrupting." His mother jumped in and said, "No, no, you're not."
	  
	  But he had. And my conversation was over and it never returned. To me it seemed clear that MP wasn't interested and so I wasn't interested in pursuing it with her.
	  
	  <!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
	  <!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->