-
- # 2021 / 04 / 09 / 22:18:16 /
  id:: 635aef12-5809-4d25-9019-86a6e66e095d
	- 46 min. talk with Bill. He says that next week David & Laura are meeting up at their place. Then will travel to CA. David has inquired with Mary and Charlotte about possibly moving to Albuquerque with Laura. They said that if he did that he could **retire**.
	  
	  Sam (of Lee Detwiler) is transferring to Santa Fe – bringing with a bunch of friends (wealthy). Santa Fe is 6 hours or so drive for them.
	  
	  Bill reports that Feds are requiring a PIN of everyone? Just like Sean was saying?
	  
	  Bill wonders about Miriam. Figures Owen is just non-communicative as usual.
	  
	  Touched base with Wendy who will be Eucharistic Minister with me. She suggested a time to address the gun violence that touches us ...
	  
	  Gave scooter to Ehab Hamed (for Duha). When I asked, he seemed delighted when I told him how I would pronounce his name – he said, "You said it exactly right." but apparently it's problematic around these parts. He's called "Eee" at work.
	  
	  ---
	  
	  Probably the most important thing from Bill's phone call was something Bill said, acknowledged. When I asked him about the children and their relative lack of responses, among the things he responded with was about Emma. He said that he and Karla had had recent conversations about the fact that Emma had mentioned at the time of her wedding that she hoped there would be a time soon when there could be a proper celebration. Bill was conflicted about that in as much as he felt that he couldn't go if I was not invited. Karla, on the other hand, did not see Bill's point of view at all.
	  
	  I recognize their 2 perspectives as reflecting where they have been in phone conversations with me.
	  
	  It makes a difference that Bill wants to be "on my side." On the other side, I don't see how anyone could see that it's ok for me not to know what the accusation against me is. And thus unable to mount a defense or a counter-narrative, or just to provide evidence that it wasn't true.
	  
	  
	  <!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->