-
- # 2021 / 09 / 10 / 00:58:11 /
  id:: 635aef11-2b9b-432d-8343-0d4cb70aa485
	- “Is the life I am living the same as the life that wants to live in me?”
	  
	  With this searching question, Parker Palmer begins an insightful and moving meditation on finding one's true calling.
	  
	  Let Your Life Speak is an openhearted gift to anyone who seeks to live authentically. The book's title is a time-honored Quaker admonition, usually taken to mean “Let the highest truths and values guide everything you do.” But Palmer reinterprets those words, drawing on his own search for selfhood. “Before you tell your life what you intend to do with it,” he writes, “listen for what it intends to do with you. Before you tell your life what truths and values you have decided to live up to, let your life tell you what truths you embody, what values you represent.”
	  
	  Vocation does not come from willfulness, no matter how noble one’s intentions. It comes from listening to and accepting “true self” with its limits as well as its potentials. Sharing stories of frailty and strength, of darkness and light, Palmer shows that vocation is not a goal to be achieved but a gift to be received
	  
	  
	  <!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
- # 2021 / 09 / 10 / 22:38:12 /
  id:: 635aef11-b8b7-4ad7-af5f-6470973d481c
	- tags: ['September 2021,MyFamily,StPauls']
	  
	  Mary Pat says that I shouldn't feel bad about disappointing the people here. They want a super-hero and I'm not that. She says that if I make them disappointed in me it will motivate them to get a permanent priest.
	  
	  She's right actually. Though I don't know if I can feel good about that.
	  
	  ---
	  
	  Bill called earlier. He sent us the crab cakes as a housewarming gift. He'd been wanting to do it, he said, for a while. He is so good. So thoughtful.
	  
	  Talking with him was the best thing in the past few days. So relaxed. So comfortable.
	  
	  He reports that:
	  
	  * Julian is moving to the mountains. He will be maintenance man with a condominium. Receives lodging and a ski pass.
	  * He had to tell Mo that he couldn't take care of the dogs while she goes to California. But she doesn't yet know he's moving.
	  * Julian saw Owen on July 4. Bridget and girls & lots of dogs were there. Last time he saw Owen.
	  
	  
	  <!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
- # 2021 / 09 / 10 / 23:27:00 /
  id:: 635aef11-3fef-48c6-b347-87ea0bb5ec19
	- tags: ['September 2021,daily prayer,2021 / 01 / 08 / 10:16:59 /']
	  
	  Forgive me, most gracious Lord and Father, if this day I have done or said anything to increase the pain of the world. Pardon the unkind word, the impatient gesture, the hard and selfish deed, the failure to show sympathy and kindly help where I had the opportunity, but missed it; and enable me so to live that I may daily do something to lessen the tide of human sorrow, and add to the sum of human happiness. (*anonymous Christian*)
	  
	  from *Prayers for Healing today's *
	  
	  
	  <!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->