-
- # 2021 / 05 / 05 / 06:55:22 /
  id:: 635aef12-25c5-4de3-93eb-c6e2b4977022
	- tags: ['conflict,gratitude,May 2021']
	  
	  conflict Yesterday, MP could not think of anything that I could do that would please her. I emphasized that I was suggesting something small and limited. I thought, "How wonderfully "Catch 22" of her – there's nothing I can do that would satisfy her." Finally she came up with, "Put breakfast dishes in the dishwasher – don't leave them on the counter."
	  
	  I am so offended, after all the dishes I've done over the years, how thoroughly I clean the kitchen when I do it, and that's what she finds to be irritated about.
	  
	  I think that all I am to her is **irritations.** My hair on the carpet. She washes my clothes – but she was furious when I set about to do my own laundry. She imagines that her efforts are all that keep this household going.
	  
	  **I'm ready to give up.**
	  
	  ---
	  
	  gratitude cf. Miriam's list of gratitudes on her Facebook page today. "A week of struggle" for her.
	  
	  so to, here today from de Chardin
	  
	  A Book Excerpt on Gratitude
	  Twitter
	  Facebook
	  Link
	  Print
	  " 'Blessed be you, harsh matter, barren soil, stubborn rock: you who yield only to violence, you who force us to work if we would eat.
	  
	  " 'Blessed be you, perilous matter, violent sea, untamable passion: you who unless we fetter you will devour us.
	  
	  " 'Blessed be you, mighty matter, irresistible march of evolution, reality ever newborn; you who, by constantly shattering our mental categories, force us to go ever further and further in our pursuit of the truth.
	  
	  " 'Blessed be you, universal matter, immeasurable time, boundless ether, triple abyss of stars and atoms and generations: you who by overflowing and dissolving our narrow standards of measurement reveal to us the dimensions of God.
	  
	  " 'Blessed be you, impenetrable matter: you who, interposed between our minds and the world of essences, cause us to languish with the desire to pierce through the seamless veil of phenomena.
	  
	  " 'Blessed be you, mortal matter: you who one day will undergo the process of dissolution within us and will thereby take us forcibly into the very heart of that which exists.
	  
	  " 'Without you, without your onslaughts, without your uprooting of us, we should remain all our lives inert, stagnant, puerile, ignorant both of ourselves and of God. You who batter us and then dress our wounds, you who resist us and yield to us, you who wreck and build, you who shackle and liberate, the sap of our souls, the hand of God, the flesh of Christ: it is you, matter, that I bless.
	  
	  " 'I bless you, matter, and you I acclaim: not as the pontiffs of science or the moralizing teachers depict you, debased, disfigured — a mass of brute forces and base appetites — but as you reveal yourself to me today, in your totality and your true nature. . . .
	  
	  " 'I acclaim you as the divine milieu, charged with creative power, as the ocean stirred by the Spirit, as the clay molded and infused with life by the incarnate Word. . . .
	  
	  " 'Raise me up then, matter, to those heights, through struggle and separation and death; raise me up until, at long last, it becomes possible for me in perfect chastity to embrace the universe."
	  
	  ---
	  
	  You who batter us and then dress our wounds, you who resist us and yield to us, you who wreck and build, you who shackle and liberate, the sap of our souls, the hand of God, the flesh of Christ:it is you, matter, that I bless.
	  
	  From *Earth Prayers* and Google
	  
	  ---
	  
	  C.S. Lewis on **The Presence of God**
	  
	  *Posted on November 22, 2013 by Charles Heck*
	  
	  “We may ignore, but we can nowhere evade, the presence of God. The world is crowded with him. He walks everywhere incognito. And the incognito is not always hard to penetrate. The real labor is to remember, to attend … in fact to come awake. Still more, to remain awake.”
	  
	  – C.S. Lewis in *Letters to Malcolm: Chiefly on Prayer*
	  
	  
	  <!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->