- odonohue-questions
- daily-questions

*Make the above a link to compose a response.*
## Journal Entries
-  Dinner with [[Shiflets]] 09:44:50 PM
	- Jan / Paula Rudinoff. She the story told to group of women -- we could have spent the afternoon having sex.
	- He chauffeured Bp. Tutu at Virginia Seminary: prayed evening prayer while driving through slums of Washington, Maryland, etc.
	- He hosted Bp. Gordon (Alaska). He sat with chief in a village. The dog nipped at him. On inquiry, the host told him that he was eating out of the dog's bowl.
	- Mary taught elementary school.
	- He observed 50 years ordination 12/13.
	- His son teaches school in Aspen. They have a place in Carbondale, CO. They live there for 6 mos. and the son gets AirBnB for the other months.
	- They gutted their house/condo. 
	- His church went from 120 ASA to 700-800 in a community booming in northern Maryland.
	- He decided against running for bishop. By early 2000's he was "burned out."
	- Dabney asked him to do 2 years interim at Good Samaritan. 
	- They've only been at St. Alfred's for a year or so as they saw the rector at Ascension minimize the danger of Covid and politicizing it. He didn't listen to Bill, didn't care.
	- Amazingly, they had taken an Alaska cruise on the Holland *Vollendam*. 
	- DMin at Hartford Seminary. Learning what he wasn't doing in preaching ... 1 hour with the coach we got through 1st paragraph.
	- 20 years on Board of Trustees of Virginia Seminary. They both reported the extraordinary beauty of the campus. Largest green space ...
	- He dropped the name of James Fenhagen as if he were a friend.
	- 

## Gratitude
- blank


