- Again today Wastepro drove by our recycle bags
	- called. She reported that we can't have it in bags. I used black bags since June. She said that she would send the driver back to pick it up.
	- The truck returned and picked up the now boxed recycling.
- https://www.notion.so/ai?wr=93a3ca9aec211557&utm_source=notionClient&utm_medium=copyButton&utm_campaign=ai-beta&utm_content=share
  collapsed:: true
	- *Notion*
		- Sign up for AI enhanced
		- You’re #38889 in line
		  You're on the private alpha waitlist!
		  Invite friends to move up in line.
		- What can Notion AI do?
		  •	Let it tackle that first draft — Ask Notion AI to handle your first draft about a topic and get ideas that you can mold into something great.
		  •	Spur ideas and creativity — Notion AI can instantly give you a list of ideas about anything, surfacing ideas as a jumping-off point for your own creativity.
		  •	Act as a hawk-eyed editor — Whether it’s spelling, grammar, or even translation, Notion AI catches mistakes and even translates whole posts.
		  •	Summarize meetings and documents — Instead of sifting through a garble of notes, let Notion AI pull out the most important points and action items.
		  And we’re just getting started — Notion AI will get much better in the coming months.
		  The private alpha is accessible via waitlist only. You can sign up here:
- **12:51** Great Courses
	- Signed up for text messages from *Great Courses*
- Worked on diocesan forms.
	- DONE Nicci re. Hawai'i report
	  :LOGBOOK:
	  CLOCK: [2022-11-16 Wed 20:20:46]
	  CLOCK: [2022-11-16 Wed 20:20:49]--[2022-11-17 Thu 17:57:46] =>  21:36:57
	  :END:
	- DONE +Bob re. supply
	  :LOGBOOK:
	  CLOCK: [2022-11-16 Wed 20:21:05]
	  CLOCK: [2022-11-16 Wed 20:21:07]--[2022-11-17 Thu 17:57:42] =>  21:36:35
	  :END:
	- DOING  Peter L. re. letter of oversight
	  :LOGBOOK:
	  CLOCK: [2022-11-16 Wed 20:21:25]
	  CLOCK: [2022-11-16 Wed 20:21:30]
	  :END: