- Cruise ship details [[cruise]]
  collapsed:: true
	- [Volendam information](https://www.hollandamerica.com/en_US/cruise-ships/ms-volendam/5.html)
	- [Dropbox info](https://www.dropbox.com/home/shared-stuff/Shared-Dropbox/Travel/Cruise%202023)
	- Information there about our stateroom, etc.
	- We are in first deck "F1938"
- Readwise trial ending
  collapsed:: true
	- Thanks for taking the time to try Readwise over the past 30 days. Unfortunately, now is the end of your trial and in order to continue using Readwise you'll need to:
	- [Upgrade your account](https://readwise.io/upgrade?ref=downgrade&et=fcb3794b-fb42-4b27-a730-79cf1d7d05ff)
	- There are two plans:
	- Readwise Lite, which is just the daily review & email, or
	    Full Readwise which gets you all of our hardcore features like tagging, note-taking, Evernote, etc.
	- If you're not ready to upgrade, you can also refer your friends to use Readwise and get an extra month of full Readwise for each friend who joins.
	- Until you do one of the above, you will no longer receive your daily Readwise emails or be able to review your highlights on the Readwise site. You can always export your data in csv format or delete your account, however.
	- Regardless of your choice, we want to say thank you for trying out Readwise. We know it's been an investment of your time, and we appreciate you giving us a chance :)
	- Thanks,
	- Tristan & Dan (the Readwise Team)
	- PS. If you have any questions or need any help, please don't hesitate to reply to this email. We'd love to chat!
	-
- Kevin (Top Notch) info to MP re. bills in 2023
- **10:31** T-mobile
  collapsed:: true
	- Contact us:
	  collapsed:: true
		- Quick access numbers
		- Shopping T-Mobile
			- For personal: 1-800-T-MOBILE
			  For business: 1-866-965-0526
		- General Customer Care & Technical Support
			- From the T-Mobile app, on a T-Mobile phone
			  From your T-Mobile phone: 611
			  Call: 1-800-937-8997
			  If you are calling about a technical issue with your T-Mobile service, please call from a different phone so that we can troubleshoot with you.
	- 55 + -- International experience -- add me to authorized user:  **henry**
		- Only MP can make changes
		- mph2Tmobile (MP **password**)
		- **passcode**: 120912
		- no missed payments, 2 lines
		- His English was rudimentary, he struggled to be precise, translate into what he knew how to do
		- Our plan:
		- dates: -- itinerary -- Argentina normal
			- .25 per minute
		- 55+? Magenta 5 plus plan. We are both over 70 y/o. If 5G, 100 GB data, etc. check with web site for details
		- ts
		-
- #task get ready for Thursday dinner
  collapsed:: true
	- DONE vacuum
	- DONE dust
	- DONE greenery top of entertainment
	- DONE table pads
	- DONE table cloth
	- DONE set with china
	- DONE straighten front room
	- DONE call T-Mobile
	-
	-
	-
- **14:53** Becky [[becky-friedenberg]] phone call
  collapsed:: true
	- Her priest has agreed that she should begin the process of discernment for holy orders
	- I told of Bp. Tom Ray's insight about theology of ministry
	- Henri Nouwen, *Wounded Healer* + some other book?
	- I told her of the old priest who told me to try to do anything other than be a priest.
	- She responded about Lydia's news that she had been through with her parents what mine are going through with me.
		- When she was going through divorce 20 years ago, she asked to come be with them and they refused
	- The "be there for her" is huge, but for me can be ambiguous: fatuous and without significance but also how to do it?
	- She offered what I had said, that Lydia could help me to know how to help.
	- I wonder about how much Lydia's lack of verbal response is a function of her distrust in her own communication abilities
	- Becky also pointed to how those who are depressed descend into a hole. She didn't seem to know about Lydia's history.
	- I couldn't very well remember when she started that, the medication, etc. I also don't know when she may have stopped taking it.
	- Is it related to what happened with Nick?
- Fellowship Committee [[visioning-st-alfreds]]
	- Lyn Lund, Barb kunkel, Peter, woman, woman2 with funny name.
	- Roxanne, Vivian, Sam didn't hear from
	- PL: story on NPR yesterday. 1st time since record keeping less than 50% participation
	  collapsed:: true
		- People have been looking for an excuse not to go church. They're not coming back.
		- Those who are are not here out of obligation.
		- There was an expectation for post-pandemic hunger for fellowship would produce a thunder of returnees. Didn't happen.
			- pandemic getting us re-wired re. fellowship?
		- Intentionality around this effort is good, regardless of outcome
		- St. Andrew's slightly larger than St. Alfred's. 3 services. They host coffee hour after 10 service with perhaps 10 people. We have regularly 50-60 people.
	- *koinonia* ... Fellowship committee not well structured in PL time. Part of healing.
	  collapsed:: true
		- several special tours
			- last year
		- Lyn sees difference in coffee hour. people hang out longer. strong, loving conversations with a variety. Feels different. **Undercurrent of joy**.
	- Care-call ministry mattered to people. The habit of connecting with people. Let people know that others care. We care for one another because God cares about us.
	- Quick wins
		- Nametags?
		- Someone in charge of Coffee hour, could be natural to move from setting up coffee to serve as greeter
		- Someone accompanying newcomers to coffee hour
		- People to function as greeters
		- Bill Shiflet over Barb Christianson re. head usher
		- greeting folks when they come into church
		- Dinners on Saturday nights
			- formation activity, trying to integrate that group.
		- Bridge group -- meet in Chapel
		- How get more coffee hour hosts
		- Lent
			- Lenten soup potlucks -- tie-in with formation groups
			- retired clergy
			- Lenten quiet day
			- Lenten book study
			- Lent: do soup instead of sweets at coffee hour
			- Wednesday soup and service
	- Big ideas
		- in home gatherings
		- Rector eat with newcomers. It's in the works for after first of year.
		- PL general feeling about fund-raisers: he doesn't like them
			- the work we do as congregation should be supported by congregation
			- e.g. spaghetti dinner to raise funds for (xyz)
			- they called their dinner groups *koinonia* groups
			- Sam might be good at hosting, gathering interest, in dinner groups (MP would certainly be)
				- Jeanette, Sam, or Kathy, Roxanne (from Maine)
		- Welcome teams, appointments, dinner with rector and vestry, welcome bags
		- Lyn Lund has to get (someone?) into the US -- couple of months. Friday her last isolation day. Testing. John.
		- Foyer groups