- Agenda
  collapsed:: true
	- 7:45 appointment with [[ophthalmologist]]
	- 10:00 meet Linda
		- Satisfaction at keeping my mind working.
			- Feeling like it is rusty.
			- But getting *Logseq*... "works like a brain"
			- Sense of reassurance that I'm still alive.
			- Markdown index
				- abortion
				  art
				  culture
				  diy
				  education
				  environment
				  health
				  history
				  index.md
				  legal
				  my-places
				  personal
				  politics
				  reading
				  religion
				  sample-stackedit
				  science
				  technical
				  world
				  writing
				- Archives
					- markdown-archive-10
					  markdown-archive-11
					  markdown-archive-12
					  markdown-archive-7
					  markdown-archive-8
					  markdown-archive-9
		- Julian's visit
			- "deep down" gladness
			- **sadness**
			- the child I most relate to? the child most vulnerable? The one not paired up.
		- licensing process
			- spiritual autobiography
			- **what's it been all about?**
			- "Personal spiritual narrative of my priesthood."
		- Mentoring:
			- Scott & Becky
			- **[[Manny]]** is new
		-
	- Noon Morning Prayer with Manny
- **2 am** Got Obsidian working on office desktop
  collapsed:: true
	- git wasn't working
	- had to install github-cli  for Arch
	- follow the directions for *gh auth login* to authenticate this desktop
- **15:46**  Nicci
  collapsed:: true
	- Nicci,
		- Let's just say that I have kept my distance long enough to satisfy the diocesan guidelines. So -- greetings from sunny but hurricaney Florida. As one measure of our getting settled is that I am one doctor's appointment away from having replaced all of  battalion of doctors. As it happened, when I called for a primary care doctor appointment and the soonest I could get was Nov. 21.
		- We are now anticipating our extended cruise beginning Jan. 3. Our ship will take us down and around South America, visiting Antarctica and traveling down the Amazon. Lots of stops along the way.
		- There seems to be a lot going on around St. Paul's. It all must feel good to be maneuvering towards "normal".
		- My reason for writing is that I have a request of you. I have to provide a report to my "home" diocese of Hawai'i of my sacramental activities in the last year, Advent 1 2021 - Christ the King 2022. I would be grateful if you could go to the red Service Book and compile the number of services that I conducted in the last church year.
		- If you have any questions feel free to reach out. I am grateful for whatever help you can give.
- **17:36** +Bob
	- Bp. Fitzpatrick,
		- As I think you are aware, we have moved to Florida. We are finally settling in after a difficult summer dealing with movers and getting our house in working condition. After a bit of church shopping, we have settled on a parish to make "our own." It is St. Alfred's in Palm Harbor.
		- After talking with Dabney, I have decided to apply for a license to supply in the diocese. As a part of the process, they require a letter of good standing. I am requesting such a letter at this time. It could be sent to either Bp. Smith or the Canon to the Ordinary, The Rev. Canon Richard Norman.
		-