- odonohue-questions
- daily-questions

> There are three classes of men; lovers of wisdom, lovers of honor, and lovers of gain.
> -- <cite>Plato</cite>

## Journal Entries
-  [[Thanksgiving - 2022]] #cruise 
	- Successfully got this file into the working github vault. The question is: **should I pay for the "pro" version of "Working Copy" in order to do work on Iphone?**
	- I don't see that it's very easy to edit it on the iphone, now that it's in "working copy" rather than **Obsidian.**
- Task management in Obsidian (plugin) https://thesweetsetup.com/obsidian-task-management-basics/
	- [ ] Packing
- Lydia 5:15pm
	- getting divorced
	- no support
	- upset with dog
	- Bridget suggested reach out to me
	- sleeping when sick, preferring animals, when trying to give him space
	- week before Halloween (You need to move out move in with your mom) 
	- 2 weeks later "I want a divorce"
	- tried therapy
	- reached out to "person from my past" -- he got really upset. He's gone psycho. Threatening to dump my things. Drop off furniture at Bridget's. (Leaving in street.) 
	- He said you have til 17th to get furniture off.
	- Mom issued trespassing warning on him
	- U-haul for Saturday to move things to storage.
	- Get paid Monday. Need to pay Mom for u-haul. A medical bill have to pay. Praxis $150 and background check. $100.
	- When finished -- end of 2023.
	- Want to buy a house of her own. Getting $6K stipend from work. Use down-payment on house?
	- Living at Mom's 4221 Norton DR, SB, 46614.
	- He told her to leave Oct. 20th.
	- Guidance on how to buy a house.
	-  Bridget paying for uhaul. Letting me stay here.
	- I am so much more than a money machine.
		- I'm not going to get into it"
	- "I can hear lots of hesitancy in your voice. I'll just let you go."
## Gratitude
- blank


