Owen's Jacquie Lawson birthday card message:

Dear Owen,
This is your day. And I think equally a day that neither of your parents will ever forget as long as a bit of their wits are about them. Maybe even after that in as much as the tears I cried when you were born I judge to be the opening within me to receive the flood of God's grace that I believe is always available. "Aloha" and "Hau'oli la hanau" from Dad and Mary Pat.

---
The conversation after lunch yesterday with Joe left me feeling motivated to continue the conversation on NT Wright. He said, "What I got out of the reading is that he was saying basically what  you had been saying."

Driving all day today in order to get back -- not to home, because it's not that -- but it's where we need to go to get to home, now in Florida. I'm ok with saying we're going back to [[Florida]]. Saying, "We're going home to South Carolina", feels like I'm going back to prison or to the *Handmaid's Tale* or something.

---
[[Scott]] reached out as I was driving back today. He wants to talk. I feel, again, like I'm a spiritual director kind of relationship for him. It is precious to me.

When I left South Bend, I felt like I wasn't going to see these family members again until the time of a funeral. I felt so connected to [Bill](Bill.md) this past week. 

Over and over people asked me if I was going to continue work in the church. I don't know the answer. But generally I feel like I've been set free. High church Quaker. Judaism. Zen.

---
Time with Mark & Mary in South Bend. They seemed to be so eager to share with us, Mark with me. They are facing so many similar issues with Mark's health. He may get a stent this week. Is that what is causing his decline?

Ukelele? Bicycle?