- [[Will]] questions for Anne Freeman
	- "Short form trust needs to be revoked?"
	- Could it all be handled with a "codicile?" changing names.
	- We have an **advanced health care directive**. No change?
	- We have **Durable power of attorney**: #Bill / #Marypat
	- MP may need change health care directive from Amy to ?
	- **Last will** the personal rep's are in Hawai'i.
	- 17 shares =>
		- ?
	- The trust designates sale of real property.
- Stuffy nose followed by runny nose -- I've taken this to see if it is effective
  collapsed:: true
	- I have a quantity of
	- Allegra (fexofenadine) helps to relieve allergy symptoms and itchiness from hives. It can sometimes cause sleepiness, but not as often as other allergy medications.
	- COMMON BRANDS
	  Allegra, Mucinex Allergy
	- DRUG CLASS
	  Antihistamine
	- CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE CLASSIFICATION
	  Not a controlled medication
- **15:26** Anne Freeman
	- next 2 weeks have it done
	- est. of cost -- simple, durable power, power of attorney, mirror image will
	- states are specific in their laws,
	- need a trust? probate etc.
	- **tchotchke**, cars, house etc.
	- accounts have beneficiary (outside probate)
		- summary of administration homestead petition (protected from creditors claim) (a few months) -- seeking creditors etc.
		- probate is not so bad -- trust is more or less the same administration just outside probate (not in jurisdiction of the courts)
	- will, with documents etc. flat fee $850
		- if you add a trust, joint trust $1500 on top of that
		- for our situation do a summary administration -- move the house to beneficiaries
		- she does not suggest using Joe to buy from kids, families can blow up
		- difference from my mom is that our house isn't paid off
		- don't need a trust
		- Always do a trust vs. "whew it depends."
	- questionnaire food for thought
		- mixed family (children) a factor
	- the second to die is what triggers estate etc. split according to wills