## Extraordinary in ordinary
#sacramental evoking the magic of the power of words in Pablo Neruda? The generational connection with Mark and Maureen? Mary Pat connecting as teachers with guide Jorge? The fact that both of us felt vestiges of Hawaii in La Serena? Not **vestige**. **Echoes**? **Hints**?

## Reading
- [[Cruise-2023]]
- [[Excel functions convert]]
- [[Free fax]]
- [[Oldest runic writing]]
- [[Intelligent people]]
- [[Free things Lihue]]
- [[Poetry prize]]
- [[Scroll Chromebook]]
- [[Human happiness]]
- [[CofE]]
- [[Pablo Neruda]]
- [[Pablo Neruda poetry]]
- 

## Coquimba

- 19 c many British to city to build up 
- Seismic area. Common. 
- Chile still the best place for living in South America
- Witches of Salamaca
- Legends of pirates
- **Mapuche** indigenous people in South were never defeated. They want only to protect the land. “People of the land”. 
- 12 million people in country
- 1544 a rest area between Santiago and Peru 
- The lighthouse is a monument to the President who developed La Serena in 1940
- Mary Pat talked with guide Jorge about teaching. The surroundings of the lighthouse led her to conclude she could live here for a few months anyway. She could eat in The restaurants in the neighborhood. 
- Returning to the bus it was found that 2 bags had been stolen, including the guide’s. We were one seat back but escaped the theft. 
- Touristy but place for rest. Rules and laws. 

## Events
- A swell on the way in
- Dumped food and dishes all over Lido at breakfast
- This was the first place she could come and stay for a month La Sarena
- Guide Jorge was a teacher by trade. Of English. He did it to have an impact on future of country
- 2 packs were stolen out of the bus

