# Extraordinary in ordinary
#sacramental The surge of people, including Mary Pat, who offered to give blood for the “passenger who is critically ill.” Was it alone in the gym with the 15 minutes on the treadmill or the 15 minutes on the Promenade? 

Was it at mass. Following along, imagining a little bit what my sermon would be? Standing after communion. No one else. Just pondering for a few moments that mystery, the magic, of being fed with the body of Christ? The priest’s sermon was about who Christ speaks to us in the language we can hear: “fishers of men” cp. “builders of homes” or some such. And that 1 Co, with it’s who is Paul? Who is Apollos? What is Christ’s? I thought for the first time my sermon would be asking the rhetorical question, “Who is Christ’s” Who belongs to Christ? Why the answer seems abundantly clear that everyone who ever was or is or will be belongs to Christ. For Christ is al in all. Alpha and Omega. 

At that point it is so much more than a sermon about political divisions in the church or even divisions in the world.

We watched a movie: *Before Sunset*. Ethan Hawke and Julie Delphy. She was a beautiful, alluring French actress / singer. A one night stand 10 years ago. Then they meet again. Each with 10 years of stuff. Do they live happily ever after? MP doesn’t like the unfinished nature of the story.

- [[Cruise-2023]]

- [[Turing test]]
- [[David Crosby]]
- [[Pasta dishes]]
- [[Miscarriage etc]]
- [[Contra de Santos]]
# Port essentials
## Robinson Crusoe 
- Could be 6 minutes
- Hike Hill for photo. Hike down to eat lobster. 
- Yesterday loading supplies for 10-12 days
- Last minute protocol
- Town 700 people on island. We're bringing on 1800 people. 
- Unique destination
- Archipelago. 1966 name Crusoe. 
- 4 of next 5 tender ports. 
- 1574 a refuge of salty characters
- Selkirk didn't think ship was safe. He requested be left on island. Expect to not survive but he did. Spanish had left goats. 1704 left 1708 returned to Scotland.
- Over was Juan Fernandez island but renamed but Chile renamed for tourism. 
- Exiles who fought for independence. 
- Town leveled 2010. 
- Not big place. 
- Library museum
- Spiny lobster major occupation. 
- Entrance fee. $10. For national park and trails. 
- 1-2 hours each way. 
- Cash port
## Puerto Montt 
- German influence
- Salmon capital. Flown to world daily. 
- Beautiful sailing after we leave
- Great for the scenery
- Tender port
- Mapuche people here
- Germans in mid 19 c escaping revolution in Germany
- Berries are common in area. Dairy so cheese etc. 
- 210000 people
- Shop's pretty close
- Mistral first Nobel prize for Latin America. 1945. 
- Several members of staff live in "city of roses" German plus volcanoes
- Osorno 8000 ft volcano. Very active. Other one was last active 2015. 
- Chile second after Indonesia with active volcanoes. 

# Sugar and slavery
- We dock in Rio within blocks of the slave market
- Swaziland became eswatini
- 

# Wine
- Toro di piedra (Cabernet Sauvignon?)
- Caliterra (Sauvignon Blanc)
