- # 2020
	- \newpage
	  
	  ---
	  title: '2020 / 12 / 26 / 00:00:00 /'
	  date: '2021-01-10T00:10:11.395Z'
	  tags: ['December,December 2020']
	  ---
	  
	  <!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
	  
	  [[2020-12-26]]
	  [[2020_12_27]]
- # 2020 / 12 / 28 / 08:52:42 /
  collapsed:: true
	- This is Lydia's birthday. She is so far away (mentally especially) but her spirit seems rooted so deep within me.
	  
	  There is a story in WP about how more and more schools are tabulating what are the most successful degrees. The catch-word part of the story is that students aren't paying attention to the results. That's not what's interesting to me, it is using the results to get a picture of what is valued in our society at this point in time ValuesofSociety – and prompting questions about why? Where should we? [UT effort](https://seekut.utsystem.edu/UndergradNat) said to be pioneering effort and latest  [Federal Govt](http://cew.georgetown.edu/wp-content/uploads/CEW-Buyer-Beware.pdf)
	  
	  Unrelated is the fascination with Queen Charlotte – prominent because of a TV series *Bridgerton*. [Washington Post](https://www.washingtonpost.com/history/2020/12/27/bridgerton-queen-charlotte-black-royals/) Debate apparently about whether she had African blood in her, through Portugal.
	  
	  \newpage
	  
	  ---
	  title: '2020 / 12 / 29 / 10:13:34 /'
	  date: '2021-01-10T02:02:25.899Z'
	  tags: ['December 2020']
	  ---
	  
	  <!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
- # 2020 / 12 / 29 / 10:13:34 /
	- Waking today alone in an empty house. Last words by text from both of us was "I love you." I don't understand how fixing leftover dinner turned into this. I debate: "Is it my move? Or perhaps she's waiting for some indication of flexibility from me. By leaving she has boxed herself into a pride corner that might be difficult to back down from."
	  
	  Reading in the middle of the night as I couldn't sleep, the book Bill gave and commented that he is reading it now also: Time-of-the-Magicians: the decade of the 1920's which in an earlier decade I had focused on for the literary giants that worked in that era, the likes of Eliot, Pound, et al.
	  
	  \newpage
	  
	  ---
	  title: '2020 / 12 / 30 / 06:53:42 /'
	  date: '2021-01-10T02:05:52.706Z'
	  tags: ['December 2020']
	  ---
	  
	  <!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
- # 2020 / 12 / 30 / 06:53:42 /
	- Is there a way to get a regular feed of a quote? QuoteFeed
	  
	  I have set up templates in Joplin, based on the prompts from "Grid Diary". I think it could work for me. Joplin, with tags and links, is getting more and more dynamic.
	  
	  I feel the same kind of dynamic learning going on with this application / web site.
	  
	  ---
	  
	  I installed a new keyboard (IOS & Android) "**Typewise**" from a recommendation. It is re-thinking the handheld keyboard. It seems potentially quite powerful.
	  
	  \newpage
	  
	  ---
	  title: '2020 / 12 / 31 / 20:14:59 /'
	  date: '2021-01-10T00:06:20.697Z'
	  tags: ['December 2020']
	  ---
	  
	  <!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
- # 2020 / 12 / 31 / 20:14:59 /
	- So this year is coming to an end. I have spent the day essentially in mourning. Not for the losses of Covid. Not even so much for the bitterness of 6 months with Sean in this household, in spite of the countless ways that MP has insured that he has determined our lives in countless ways.
	  
	  She has asked him to set the table when he was not in the room and I had just spent 15 minutes clearing the dishwasher and was standing right next to her. I think the new years celebration she had been planning was mostly for Sean's sake. The timing of the meal was very rushed and intended for Sean to be able to make his meeting, a meeting that had some of the trappings of an alternative New Year's Eve gathering.
	  
	  <u>Common Prayer</u> noted that this was the traditional celebration of "**Watch Night**" when African-Americans waited for the emancipation that would begin the next day. Mary Pat commented that it was well-known from her Atlanta days.
	  
	  The mourning was for the loss of hope in my marriage. I have spent the last 24 hours since meeting with Janet depressed and discouraged. MP has cuddled and been upbeat. I have not had room for any of it.
	  
	  \newpage