- Note
	- <!-- /*note for editing this file. As I have removed extraneous exported material, the lines with "tags" is left above the section heading to which it applies. It needs to be moved down sever lines.
	  This has been corrected 10-24-2022 12:30pm.
	  -->
- January 2021
  collapsed:: true
	- [[Jan 9th, 2021]]
	- [[Jan 8th, 2021]]
	- [[Jan 2nd, 2021]]
	- [[Jan 1st, 2021]]
	- ((635686e6-257a-4c3e-bed4-2ea55fffad0c)) [[Jan 10th, 2021]]
	- ((635686e6-4f22-4334-806e-d2935a339366)) [[Jan 11th, 2021]]
	- ((635686e6-aaf1-4989-83eb-e768b5b9dc67)) [[Jan 12th, 2021]]
	- ((635686e6-1ca8-496a-a5bf-87b5d34db756)) [[Jan 13th, 2021]]
	- ((63574c37-54ba-4556-8640-fd39b9d26996)) [[Jan 15th, 2021]]
	- ((63574c37-0c2d-4fd6-8173-98bfcfac51d1)) [[Jan 16th, 2021]]
	- ((63574c37-576a-4773-91f0-2f3668185804)) [[Jan 17th, 2021]]
	- ((63574c37-eb0a-46ee-b2a5-5bcb8113ba8a)) [[Jan 18th, 2021]]
	- ((63574c37-2fa0-4964-85bc-7925115ba273)) [[Jan 19th, 2021]]
	- ((63574c37-6685-4fcd-8b94-b0a6308fb2e5)) [[Jan 20th, 2021]]
	- ((63574c37-16a7-405f-8536-7615867e7806)) [[Jan 21st, 2021]]
	- ((63574c37-03db-40b4-81b2-1024ab3da764)) [[Jan 22nd, 2021]]
	- ((63574c37-c045-4723-9510-aa94f938c1a1)) [[Jan 23rd, 2021]]
	- ((63574c37-7506-4e6a-878a-fc585a25c136)) [[Jan 24th, 2021]]
	- ((63574c37-b759-4ac6-a25e-e427d3618c27)) [[Jan 26th, 2021]]
	- ((63574c37-80ae-49ca-a4d7-9484b7ab3117)) [[Jan 27th, 2021]]
	- ((63574c37-3e11-4c0c-852c-9c2d9d2f29da)) [[Jan 28th, 2021]]
	- ((63574c37-a82f-4102-b69f-1c985b1387c9)) [[Jan 30th, 2021]]
- February 2021
	- ((63593b9d-4eac-404c-9b97-193b3a38a4fe)) [[Feb 1st, 2021]]
	- ((63593b9d-6a6f-4188-b8b1-da33d21aaf5d)) [[Feb 2nd, 2021]]
	- ((63593b9d-dade-494c-9379-67158b28b59a)) [[Feb 3rd, 2021]]
	- ((63593b9d-034d-4bc9-8c22-3cbc37d49f0a))
	- [[Feb 4th, 2021]]
	- ((63593b9d-c26a-433e-b35a-79d03653f609))
- ((63593b9d-c17b-4720-b01b-5ce5a09677af))
- ((63593b9d-a6cf-4c46-9689-70886797133c))
# 2021 / 02 / 09 / 08:07:56 /

I arrived at the Mass vaccination site at about four minutes after eight. At that point they were maybe hundred to 150 cars in line. National Guard troops our traffic control.

By 830 I have received my vaccine. There was some mixup about find me my name. At one point I ended up with two vaccination cards. That was cleared up and I’m now waiting with other cars for the 15 minutes or so.

I asked one of the soldiers why the change of venue. He answered that a batch of vaccine have been lost or spoiled intended for the appointments of yesterday. That meant having to do twice as many today.

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 02 / 10 / 06:57:04 /

> On February 10, 1990, Nelson Mandela was released after twenty-seven years in a South African prison. He had been sentenced to life imprisonment for plotting to overthrow his government as part of the African National Congress (AFM), which stood in opposition to the ruling National Party’s apartheid policies. While imprisoned he became one of the most influential black leaders of South Africa. After the apartheid policy was defeated through nonviolent struggle, Mandela became South Africa’s first black president.

Bill gets vaccine. Turns 67.

---

Watched the latest *This is us*. Title is **There.** Jack was always "there" in  Kevin's mind. The show was about "fathers" and also "sons". Me committed to being better than my father. Owen to being better than me. All of us not able to see our own strengths. fathers

It brought tears to my eyes. And the running plot thread was that Kevin was trying to get somewhere for a family "there" time, the birth of his "twins". Randall and (his wife) calling on cell phone to Madison, saying they were "there" for her. Staying on the line to talk while she was emotional and feeling abandoned.

I'm on my way tomorrow to just such an effort. Trying to be there for Mary Pat in a way that I could not be for Bridget. The relevance for me being "there" for Sean is not lost on me. Earlier in the day, though, I was committed to leaving if Sean was going to be staying.

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 02 / 11 / 17:38:59 /

responding to email today:

Hilda, I am deeply touched by your email, and of course I don't mind you writing. I am grateful that you have found the kind of hope that you obviously in our course. There's a real confluence of experiences. In the last half hour I have returned to Dayton, OH, for the 2nd time in 10 days. My mother-in-law died on Sunday and the funeral is tomorrow. We have kept my mother's ashes on our mantel at home for 2 years since she died, waiting for the opportunity to gather some of the family to spread her ashes at Myrtle Beach where she lived for a time. My wife reminded me of one of the sacred experiences I shared with a woman in Hawai'i. Her son had died of AIDS in the 1990's. She was raised in Hawai'i but spent her adult life on the faculty of the University of Missouri. She would return every year to commemorate spreading her son's ashes from the top of Diamond Head. During the years of knowing her she had asked me to accompany her on the climb and offer blessings at the place on top. The sacred is all around us. Thanks be to God.

Faithfully,
Dale

To see a World in a Grain of Sand
And a Heaven in a Wild Flower
Hold Infinity in the palm of your hand
And Eternity in an hour (Blake)

Sent to Greg Johnson

Serendipitous that you send the message now. I’ve driven 9 hours through sleet and snow to be with my wife at the funeral of her mother which takes place tomorrow morning. I’ve just responded to a former student writing me on the occasion of a grandson’s divide. And for her I recalled a sacred time I used to spend annually with a parishioner whose son died of AIDS and whose ashes were spread from the top of Diamond Head.

I’m ok. Teaching religion 101 and history of modern Christian thought. Supplying at several small churches during a time of pandemic. One of the churches is simultaneously dealing with a rector who is presumably dying from lung cancer.

Life isn’t boring. How about you?

Dale

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 02 / 14 / 10:54:34 /

Trying to get a unified email app for devices and to do what I have used Thunderbird for. email

I was reminded that I didn't subscribe to *America* and it's probably too late. But perhaps subscribe to digital only at $50.

Need to fix the 317 class groups to account for withdrawals.

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 02 / 15 / 11:28:50 /

Church


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 02 / 16 / 23:45:34 /
tags: ['February 2021,teaching']

Watched PBS The Black Church. If has huge relevance go both my courses.

* I am grateful for:
* What surprised you this day?
* What did you learn this day?
* Daily affirmation: QuoteFeed
* How could I have made today better?
* What would make today great?
* Three (3( things that happened today

I am grateful for the black church. For Annie wanting what I had to offer re Ash Wednesday.

I am grateful for the conversation we we able to have in Zoom session with 317. Article about professor who was real advantage to zoom teaching. <https://www.nytimes.com/2021/02/15/opinion/zoom-video-school-teaching.html>. "There may be less human warmth. But there can be more human connection."

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 02 / 17 / 17:57:16 /

Joe S. came down. He was receptive to my interest in *The Black Church.* He is chair of the board for his church so is much involved in the same kind of thinking I have offered Charlotte at St. Paul's. He agrees with the notion that the "end of Christendom" is a good thing and that it provides opportunities for being a better church. What that might look like differs, of course.

I had to look up Emma's name when Joe & Katy were talking about someone of Russian background. Emma Mironichenko

* I am grateful for:
* What surprised you this day?
* What did you learn this day?
* Daily affirmation: QuoteFeed
* How could I have made today better?
* What would make today great?
* Three (3( things that happened today

Grateful for Joe listening to me about the black church and "I have a dream". I learned in tonight's episode that the phrase "I have a dream" was given to Dr King by a woman preacher – I can't remember her name.

I got to hear the beginning of Obama singing *Amazing Grace* at Mother Emmanuel – it still gives me chicken skin and I still think it is a shattering moment for our nation. But the depths to which we sank as a nation during the last 4 years is equally mind-boggling.

I am grateful for the moments that Annie and Howie gave us during our 15 minutes of self-reflection for Ash Wednesday.

From F. Buechner today:

> WORDS—ESPECIALLY religious words, words that have to do with the depth of things—get tired and stale the way people do. Find new words or put old words together in combinations that make them heard as new, make you yourself new, and make you understand in new ways.

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 02 / 18 / 04:23:05 /

> Little pitchers have big ears\
> Don't stop to count the years\
> Sweet songs never last too long on broken radios

This had kept me up all night. I see or hear Lydia and Emma as the little pitchers.


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 02 / 19 / 23:38:33 /
tags: ['February 2021,conflict']

Ended the day with a phone call to/with Bill. I have felt increasingly the odd one out here with the Sjostrom clan. Mary Pat has been (rightly so) focused on being with her siblings. I have thought a little about returning to Sean and Mary Pat and it leaves me feeling quite depressed.

I think of one of the aspects of the death of a parent as being left with a kind of "fuck it" mentality. It's a kind of "this puts things into perspective sort of thing.

Bill told me that his friend Phillipe is Jewish. He has gathered a bunch of Yiddish music for him. He told me that his parents are in Israel and are both survivors. I wondered, "How did I not register that more in the past?"

We watched a movie *Instant Family* with Mark Wahlberg and Rose ...? of *Scandal*. It was corny but portrayed in a short span that trauma of forging family. Heart ache and taking the children to the emergency room. The deep joy the first time they come to you for aid as Mommy or Daddy. And then the leaving, the abandoning as I've experienced it.

I know that part of what I have felt life has taught me is that there is no pay-off for loving and giving all of yourself. I think that's the lesson of the cross or Socrates. It was the lesson of Siddhartha.

But as Bill observed, it's not the lesson that the Sjostrom family gives off.

I learned from Katy that the foaming hand soap is just watered down handsoap. Google it. Bill had read that someone in *New York Review of Books* wrote the demise of Humanity will be AI. He and I both used to subscribe to it. He does again.

I'm grateful that my back doesn't hurt as bad as it did. I'm glad to have kind of got back on track with my email and classes. Am I? To have finished with the required HR material re. abuse of various kinds. It makes me reflect on my own pedagogy – how the little 30 min. courses from HR are probably done to a "T" the expectations of electronic pedagogy. But it ain't **critical thinking.** I missed several questions which were distinguishing between "Quid pro quo" abuse and "Sexual harrassement." Quid pro quo is, I think, harder to prove.

from Buechner on Grace:

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 02 / 20 / 23:22:56 /

Tomorrow is Julian's birthday. We made it home safely. There were so many trees in Kentucky bent like shepherds' crooks from the ice hanging from them. I was captivated with the water cycles spouting from the fissures in the rock hewn roadways through the mountains. I took pictures but couldn't capture it. My back seemed to be getting better as we traveled toward South Carolina. Yet driving to Rock Hill seemed like driving to a prison camp. From one house to another, they were both locked in skeletons and phantoms I'd rather not be involved in.

Help.

Tomorrow – just a few minutes – it will be Julian's birthday.

An example:

Mary Pat was being wistful about her mother. I made the observation that I thought it likely that Karla's mom's death and our mother's role in that had helped (at least) to cement Bill & Karla as a couple. For better or for worse through the years they were connected. Mary Pat asked about the parentage. Karen, Karla ... Jeff. The other half siblings on Mary's side of things. Russ? Karla's dad?

I began to say, "I feel really inadequate ...", intending to go on about how I don't really know the lineage there and I really should, as a brother. But Sean was standing in the doorway. He said, "Good night, guys. I'm sorry for interrupting." His mother jumped in and said, "No, no, you're not."

But he had. And my conversation was over and it never returned. To me it seemed clear that MP wasn't interested and so I wasn't interested in pursuing it with her.

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 02 / 21 / 21:02:45 /

February 2021

Watching *Les Miserables*. It has to be with Sean. I dislike it so. He wants to do it like me. I just want him gone. But the power of Victor Hugo is so much greater than I. 2 million at his funeral.

Anne Hathaway singing "I have a dream" \
could be placed beside\
Lady Gaga singing "Shallow"

[I have a dream ](https://youtu.be/WzNVmZfNoa8)

[Shallow ](https://youtu.be/bo_efYhYU2A)

or

Hugh Jackman's "Who am I?"

[Who am I ](https://youtu.be/y7-ZoOUfKv8)

My deepest identity is buried in these songs.

and Eddie Redmayn "Red and Black song"

[Red and Black ](https://youtu.be/cjp-Gyo5tNM) and [Again ](https://youtu.be/oBn1UHtYP9Q)

The agony for me is I guess centered on the fathering fathers of Jean Valjean – His love is that of a father who has known redemption.

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 02 / 22 / 15:24:03 /

February 2021

It's just going downhill quickly here. Yesterday she asked, "Are you glad to be home?" She had slept much of the day. I organized drawers in the kitchen, washed the car. I shrugged and shook my hand back and forth in a clear indication of "not so much." *comme ci comme ça*

She ignored the answer, an answer that to me was a huge red flag. She never came back to it.

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 02 / 23 / 17:05:01 /

February 2021

She had her doctor talk to my doctor about my "depression." She was afraid to say anything because she "knew how made I would be." The offense of that is beyond my saying.

She repeats that I forbid Sean from taking out the trash. That is such a twisted untruth. But she repeats it like it is. I offended her mother's funeral because I conveyed my unhappiness – anger – at Katy for refuses the gift I had brought to Dayton. As if that was the sum total of my effort to minister to her at the time of her mother's death. **It's like a repeat of Bridget**.

Fuck it.

When her family asked her about my "depression" or whatever it is, did she tell them that she had repeatedly walked out on the marriage? That she had repeatedly shared with her friends and counselors a litany of all the things that are wrong with me? That she had repeatedly said that she was done with the marriage? Did she tell them about what an albatross Sean's presence is? About how I have repeatedly said that it is a big problem for me and she has repeatedly made it clear that she doesn't give a shit?

No, I didn't think so.

---

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 02 / 24 / 05:31:07 /
tags: ['February 2021,conflict']

February 2021

Yester even I left off watching TV after the news and the James Harriot BBC. I went to the toilet, trying to figure out how to proceed with the evening, cleaned my teeth, and was leaning toward reading – whether in the bedroom or living room I didn't know.

She asked me, "Are you coming back?", as I was filling the humidifier. I said, "I don't know."

The next time I came out, hearing the TV, I looked at what she had turned on. It looked like *This is Us*. I asked her what it was. It was. She had taken my responses as I wasn't interested, she said she liked the show, but she's willing to start over.

How is it not clear that the painful thing is that the show was **our thing** but now it has become **her thing**. One more thing that is not us.

Repeated refrain from Karen yesterday was, "What are you willing to give up for the sake of the marriage?" I had trouble answering, saying, "I've given up so much. What is it that would make a difference? I don't know what it would be."

I don't remember that Mary Pat had said anything of substance, and certainly my perception is that she's not prepared to change anything important – family is too important to her, she says, implying that it's not for me.

She has spent so much energy trying to figure out what's wrong with me. I'm no longer kind, she says, what used to be mantra she reminds. Perhaps, she has thought, it is the memory loss and cognitive decline that she has observed.

I think, well that's a pretty low blow to hear for the first time in the counselor's office.

---

A part of what turned my stomach yesterday and colored the whole day was the way in which Mary Pat just flipped and expected me to follow along.

After spending 1½ hours trashing me, intending to hurt, she says on the way to the car, "Thank you for agreeing to work on the marriage." After that, for hours, she was **sweetness and light**.

Ugh. It's not inviting. It reminds me of what turns my stomach about the Sjostrom's. They are 2-faced and don't say what they mean.

One of the costs, I guess, of **family** being paramount.

---

Karen's session. Processing our sharing at 9am in the morning – an appointment.

She asked, "Remember the last time your spouse made you laugh."  Both of us couldn't really. I said that I thought it had to do with feeling safe. MP thinks of "safety" as physical safety. She has assured her counselors that there is no question about physical safety. She understands that when I say I haven't felt **safe** I mean something different. safety But she is unwilling to process or talk about our two different uses of the term. I didn't understand at first. Later in the day I thought it was because it would mean confronting the way in which she makes my world "unsafe."


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 02 / 25 / 06:22:04 /
tags: ['February 2021,conflict']

February 2021

The familiar tune in *Outlander* the TV show we started last night. Words of Robert Louis Stevenson and familiar Scottish folk tune. [The poem ](https://www.poetryfoundation.org/poems/45949/sing-me-a-song-of-a-lad-that-is-gone)
### Sing me a Song of a Lad that is Gone

By *Robert Louis Stevenson*

Sing me a song of a lad that is gone,\
Say, could that lad be I?\
Merry of soul he sailed on a day\
Over the sea to Skye.\
\
Mull was astern, Rum on the port,\
Eigg on the starboard bow;\
Glory of youth glowed in his soul;\
Where is that glory now?\
…

[youtube ](https://youtu.be/-zQoQ1ckFxI)

---

Lectio: Mark & Jesus saying everyone who follows must take up his/her cross. I heard "cross". Then Embrace your suffering. I ask, "How?".

Lesson: It's not about me. And my suffering. Take a larger view.

It's not about denying my personhood. It's not about choosing martyrdom over life.

family. Mary Pat's family couldn't tolerate her for a few weeks. Katy went crazy. But I'm expected to allow a stranger into my home for a year or more. Ah well. Take the larger view. "What am I willing to give up?" Lost is a place, too

---

The movie tonight ended with the *Offenbach* - *Barcarolle* , from '*The Tales of Hoffmann*'

in an opera. Why do I know it? Raisins with almonds? No it was the tune from Furey's album.

Zhao Marina
1 year ago
Uplifting, I was teased for being a nerd in school, but every time I hear this song, it just tells me to hang on, life IS beautiful.


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 02 / 27 / 21:54:41 /
tags: ['February 2021,teaching']

February 2021

Worked on:

1. getting 3 devices linked with **syncthing**
1. getting liturgy-template corrected in place with 3 devices
1. Advancing the presentations status with 317 – I'm pretty good up through early 20th c. module. Need to get notes done on 3-4 modules.
1. gathered Easter music Easter liturgy

On my walk I listened to talk on Montaigne. Esp. the essay teaching left me thinking that my effort at writing a huge work on Church and Tyranny at least convinced me that I could write **essays**. Perhaps work on the next one on early earlychurch&pacifism?

Discussion about whether:

1. to make variation in the format of daily prayer
1. Lenten reading as we did with 3 volumes early on: Imprisoned text, David … re. Celtic, and Madeline L'Engle on church year?

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 02 / 28 / 09:48:27 /

February 2021

It's Sunday. MP is sleeping – presumeably sleeping off the 2^nd^ Covid shot. Possibly depression? Her siblings went to the grave site yesterday and she was sad to not be there. **I have such a powerful sense of loving her unconditionally in her weakness.** I suppose it is when she is being "strong" by pushing back against me that I have trouble.

E.G. I sometimes feel like everything I say, no matter what, she will respond with, "No ..." She will quickly look something up to demonstrate that I am wrong. Responding takes the form of a rebuttal.

But when she is just being with me she is such a darling.

daily prayer

* daily prayer LTP  cf. simple pattern, familiar source.
* Episcopal resource  in pdf
* one of the things I've done is Benedict's Rule one chapter a day. 1931 tr.  and Resources  and (Opus Dei?) Christ in the Desert Monastery, well done version
* praying the Keiils, nicely done in simple pdf
* BCP resource, easy to use
* Common Worship (C of E)

---

From *60 MInutes*

author: **Colson Whitehead**
### Fiction

* The Intuitionist (1999)
* John Henry Days (2001)
* Apex Hides the Hurt (2006)
* Sag Harbor (2009)
* Zone One (2011)
* The Underground Railroad (2016)
* The Nickel Boys (2019)
* Harlem Shuffle (2021)
### Non-fiction

* The Colossus of New York (2003)
* The Noble Hustle: Poker, Beef Jerky & Death (2014)

---

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 03 / 03 / 22:13:28 /
tags: ['March 2021,conflict']

March 2021

Time with Karen this morning. She seemed to be listening to insight I was dragging us into.

1. Trust: The problem is trust. It has been broken. What do you do? You first stop hurting one another.
1. Mary Pat expresses an unawareness of when she is hurting me. I asked her what were the indications that she was hurting. She said that she retreats and stops talking. Maybe that's so. But I was particularly focused on how she ends up focusing herself on defeating me in every thing I speak. She asked what it was for me. I thought and paused. I said that I have tried in the past to communicate non-threateningly that such and such was hurtful to me. But, I said, that had not been helpful.

Parenthetically I think that it was not helpful because she so readily takes everything as an indication that she is guilty or wrong that she immediately becomes defensive. I went on to say that probably I retreated, as she had described.

She related how I had closed off conversation the dinner before last when I responded to her hair tied up by saying I thought it was lovely. She objected with an excuse. I got up to do something in the kitchen and said "But then I don't know anything." She quickly went on to say that it wasn't helpful fo rme to say that and that she knew that it was difficult for her to receive compliments and that that was an issue for her.

I was able to report to her this morning with Karen what I hadn't said the night before, that I was very impressed with her quick response with that insight. Karen heard that.

1. I suggested that  we might have a potential conversation piece about how we were hurting. She was today advocating that we "slow down". It seems as if that meant looking more closely and in depth at the conversation itself. I said that we might talk about what we are hurting from. But the commitment would be 1) to listen closely and 2) that it is not our task to fix it.

I told an abbreviated account of waking this morning when I had been stalked by something or other. I woke early. I was concerned about the key from WU I couldn't find. Later, looking for the EKG monitor, I found it!

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 03 / 04 / 18:13:39 /

March 2021

Linda Serepca

* System of power: Believe certain things, behave certain ways = belonging
* System of love: Belonging FIRST influences what you believe and how you behave.

This came in the context of who is family and who is not. Belonging.

---

What is my belonging in the Church? At Winthrop?

Supply at Our Saviour:

June 13, 20, 27
July 11, 18, 25

---

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 03 / 07 / 00:05:42 /
tags: ['March 2021,conflict']

Such a horrendous alienation from yesterday. I'm not secure in knowing what precipitated it. I'm inclined to think it was raising the issue of Sean in our "conversation" time. I said that it had seemed clear that she was not interested in what I think or feel about the matter. She responded, "I do care what you feel." And I spoke. I spoke about a number of things Linda and I had talked about. And by the end of the day it felt like Mary Pat hated my guts. She saw it the exact opposite of course.

I am much better off not speaking at all. She may leave and end the marriage anyway. It seems like that is what she really wants. It will somehow prove her right. It's so important that she be right and I be the villain.

---

Carolyn Hornbuckle's funeral was yesterday. <https://www.legacy.com/obituaries/name/carolyn-hornbuckle-obituary?pid=197842911>

The last time I was with Carolyn was many years ago now. I was blessed to be a part of the funeral of John in Virginia. Now, seeing the photos of yesterday's memorial, I am emotionally very present. Carolyn, you were an important part of my life and of my family. I give thanks. I sang in my sermon today. I don't usually do that. I sang: "Amen. Amen. Amen."

—

Insight of the day: seeing Shirley's Facebook page that now features a photo of Shirley and Carolyn, and talking about that with Mary Pat who had talked about the things she can't talk to about her mother now that she's gone – I thought perhaps our Mom's dissatisfaction with girls was related to having been forced to give up her first born child – a girl!

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 03 / 08 / 17:42:57 /

Donald Whitley responding to my post on Facebook.
Dale C. Hathaway
you would've loved the service. It had lots of juicy theological and philosophical facets, and great songs, laughter and sharing. You were an important part of our life, and I'd love to reconnect soon.

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 03 / 09 / 21:02:35 /

Plant the gifts:

[hydrangea ](https://gilmour.com/hydrangea-care)

[camellias ](https://www.gardeningknowhow.com/ornamental/flowers/camellia/caring-for-camellias.htm)


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 03 / 10 / 06:42:45 /
tags: ['March 2021,dream,conflict']

dream: Larry Smith was the head guy. Like he was a retired bishop or something. The church was an old elaborate wooden structure. I was supposed to be an assistant, a new assistant. Supposed to preach. Julian was my server and my assistant. He had been off working and was scheduled to be back to wherever we were in order to get us to the church on time. I was running late and worried about Julian, but he was prompt. There were other people, Mary Pat figure?, who were ostensibly trying to help me get out the door, but they had other things they were doing, too.

Maybe the figures had to do with memories I'd related over the past couple of days. Hornbuckles and early ministry. Who in my family did Mary Pat know? Well, Bill/Karla, David a little, and Julian.

The figure of Larry Smith was stern but someone I could learn from and wanted to please. Erin counselor suggested I work at establishing with my family that I'm still in touch with. Such a long life-time before Mary Pat was a part of my life.

---

Couples counseling:

1. I tried to be empathetic in asking about the grief she's going through, inquiring how she processes grief. Her answer was to explain that, in effect, I was the cause of her grief with regard to Sean. She fears that I will make him not welcome to come back to our house etc. etc. When I said that I don't wish him ill she did her family thing. "I love you, but ... I've always said that **family** is very important to me. You say that my (i.e. MP's) family doesn't accept you. But they tell me (i.e. MP) that they want to accept you but that you push them away etc. etc."

The "I love you but, " is in the form of a "yes, but" which actually means the opposite. In this case it means that I (i.e. Dale) am not **family**.

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 03 / 11 / 10:01:30 /

The conversation:

MP seems to be distant. She acknowledged that she had a long and good conversation with Sean last night. She said nothing more about that.

Huge arenas cut off from between us.

She pursued my talking about how for me talking long-distance to my children has been ambivalent. How it is painful for me to see Miriam with Bridget and Emma. How Owen pointed out to me as a 12 year old that I was triangulating him with his mother.

She asked, "Where would you move if I died?" Answers included: Arizona, Hawaii, Colorado, Northwest. Each of them problematic. But I said certainly not Florida. I reversed the question and she said that certainly she would end up in Florida. But there are advantages to being here.

I guess it felt like she had pursued more realistically than I the possibility of going on without me. She said, "Thank you for conversation." I acknowledged but it doesn't feel very good right now.

---

Donald Whitley from Facebook – **follow up!**
Dale C. Hathaway
Email is good, too. Mine is noodlemcdoodle@yahoo.com

---

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 03 / 12 / 23:45:50 /
tags: ['March 2021,link files']

[markdown](./wiki/2021-01-08.md)

[diary index](./diary/diary.html)

link files archive diary

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 03 / 13 / 09:21:22 /

<https://github.com/dalesgit/dalestiddly/blob/main/diary/emma-letter.pdf>

Emma Mironichenko

<https://github.com/dalesgit/dalestiddly/blob/main/diary/emma-letter.docx>

Accomplished these last 2 days:

1. cleaned up piles of things in living room, study
1. good beginning at data base for storage containers
1. established working practice for linking with external files in tiddlywiki, especially getting my vimwiki diary installed (2017-2020)
1. updated my Kmymoney files.
1. set up Notion to help with planning and scheduling

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 03 / 14 / 14:01:09 /

<https://www.orgroam.com/manual.html>

org-roam

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 03 / 15 / 06:35:18 /

dream featured Lydia. We were at the same event. It was church related. It reminds me of **New Beginnings** or **Happening**. Somehow things were falling apart. People leaving. Some kind of misbehavior. Towards the end the group turned on Lydia. She was rejected and had to go. My reaction was swift and strong. Up to that point I had tried to have a "hands-off" approach to her. But when I saw the group turn on her I was furious. I made clear that I would defend her at all costs. Perhaps we left together.

Reflecting on it as I am awake, I ask myself, "When did Lydia turn on me?" I remember when the girls and I had stayed in Hawai'i while Bridget went to her family. Lydia's depression came to a head and I helped her to get a counseling appointment. A woman. When Lydia related some of what happened at her session, I remember so vividly being surprised at the anger she had towards me. But I absorbed it and was so grateful that she was moving forward. I took her to several sessions before Bridget appeared back on the scene. Then suddenly everything shifted. Bridget was orchestrating things. Bridget led in such a way that Lydia was soon on medication.

It has felt like I lost her at that time.

Working on family tree. Was Mom's death April 26, 2018? Yes my Google calendar indicates so.

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 03 / 16 / 07:48:09 /

<https://emacsconf.org/2020/talks/17/>  org-roam RoamResearch

> It requires one outside software, which is Zotero, what I use. It's an open source reference management software. It's great. But the thing to keep in mind is that I use two plugins that are really needed for when we work with org-roam-bibtex, org-roam, Org Mode, and the ZotFile. Better BibTeX organizes your reference keys in a way, in a fashion that works for you. For me, all my reference keys are last author and year. With ZotFile, I let it rename all the PDF files the same way that I have for my Bib keys, which is last name of author and year. All right. Once you export your entire library as a Bib file, then you can work on it within Org Mode and Emacs using the following packages. So with org-roam-bibtex, it creates an Org file for each Bib entry. You have the option of templating and doing other stuff with it.

Clericus:

Bishop was negative to EC evangelist (Jerusalem ?). Potential for opening up numbers based on rolling average. York/Lancaster not doing so well.

Sally hoping to get into nave by August. Sally wasn't in the mood to hear the evangelist.

Gordon living with uncertainty: church ministry, bought a house on line (Yarmouth, Nova Scotia), what retirement hold?,

As I shared with them about the 2 directions of Jim vs. congregation. Sally recommends eventually calling bishop. Amanda is a friend of Rhonda and calls her a good listener.

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 03 / 17 / 21:17:41 /

Roam-like Notes

Today our first party in  year. The Judges first time in another's home. Anniversary of Mary Pat's father's funeral.

I made some progress getting comfortable with roam stuff on emacs. Smoother with spacemacs. I totally spaced out Zoom with 101. I've felt dejected for days now.


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 03 / 19 / 18:24:04 /
tags: ['March 2021,conflict']

For conversation this morning I ventured to talk about some things that were a little bit *iffy*. But it was ok. I mostly felt heard.

* I confessed that I had felt "unmoored" or "disconnected" the past week or so. She asked, "Why?" and I answered I didn't know. But in a few minutes I tried out that perhaps it was partly the result of having lost all the **upside** of teaching with the online / pandemic experience but not having a lot of positives. I have felt really disconnected with what's happening with my class. That's why I canceled 317 this week and why I totally spaced out 101 on Wednesday. She questioned me – the way she almost always does – by submitting that I had had some good sessions with 317. Just 10 days ago it's true that I had had the best Zoom session of all. The whole hour was spent listening to people who volunteered as well as were called on.

I rather think that the disconnect from WU is more a symptom than a cause.

* The 2^nd^ offering was related to talk about moving. She expressed her surprise at my sharing that I would move to one side of the country and she another. She offered that it made her feel continually guilty that she was making me live in a place I didn't want to. I then tried to express my own growth process. SelfReflection

From the 70's I have tried to grow away from the inherited notion that the male is in charge and makes the ultimate decisions. I observed that when deciding between two choices, one choice wins and the other looses. Throughout 2 previous marriages I had tried to find a way to make it work, but when Mary Pat and I came together I decided that I would just give up all impulse to be the one in charge. "I'll go where you go," meant that.

I reminded her of the interview I heard years ago about a prominent writer and her professional husband who made a pact to give one another some number of years to live in a place and then it was the other's turn. Mary Pat knew that Bill and Karla had done something similar. I suppose once upon a time I had shared this same stuff with her.

I told MP that the reason I could defer to her was that I trusted that she would keep my best interests in mind as she decided. I didn't say to her that the past year has called that trust into question.

Still working on it.

---

Lecture on David Copperfield *Great Expectations.* The daring narrative experiment of having the narrator go through transformation – not being the omniscient narrator – and being the subject of the story intrigued me.

I produced a paper with a combination of Obsidian and Zettlr. I gave up on org-roam. I may try out Emacs-Doom now. I just can't get a sense of how to make connections in note-taking – at least to the extent I sort of getting it with this TiddlyWiki thingy.

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 03 / 20 / 02:35:27 /

I was staring at the scene in front of St. Andrew's at Emma's graduation. Tim Vail and his vicious verbal attack. That scene in a nutshell is the whole story with Bridget and the girls. Dostoyevsky and Raskolnikov? Which one of us the misguided idealist? SelfReflection

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 03 / 21 / 23:59:52 /

Worked on today:

1. Corrected Doom emacs to enable **org-ref** so that citations work
1. Watched National Cathedral
1. Looked at each of my blogs. Surprised by some of what was written there surprised me. Got a working index for **Checkvist**. Need to get tags?
1. Sorted Palm Sunday past sermons to get some direction and inspiration
1. Worked on music for Easter. Downloaded the videos and have a working list.
1. 3 mile walk
1. made a riotously dense salad

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 03 / 22 / 08:25:15 /

dream on waking:

MP and I were at some kind of event. Felt like southern Jefferson Co. We needed to leave. There was back and forth I think with expectations, but finally I was frustrated at waiting for her to finish whatever. I began to walk. There was hope that we would connect – at the car? down the road? There were lots of people. Lots of construction. I was walking north. We didn't connect. Then my phone went on the blink. Rebooting. Not connected to the grid. I was unable to reach her. I kept walking. I was in a big building. People like at a convention. I ran into Peter Judge and someone, like Jean from my class. I thought, "Well, I'm saved." but they weren't really helping me.

I woke.

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 03 / 22 / 23:04:49 /

Worked on:

* Palm Sunday liturgy
* Easter music
* Palm Sunday sermon
* Presentation for 317 tomorrow

Subject is heavy and deep, though the presentation is fairly light. It is comprehensive in scope, however. All the kinds of knowledge developed over the past 400 years or so and how it impacts theological inquiry.

---

I have really felt a kinship with "Claire" from *Outlander* on **Netflix**. Her time traveling back to 18th c. Scotland is a love story that I resonate pretty deeply with. Her 'love of my life" was a Scottish highlander of a former time. And I can sense that as I am caught up in the story. What is it? The love? The empathy (or deeper) with another time, another story? Time Travel

---

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 03 / 24 / 07:21:48 /
tags: ['teaching,March 2021']

> Such exchanges are the difficult work of education, one I know well from years as a student and professor. We often associate education with the accumulation of new information—more ideas, different perspectives, additional skills. And in the Gospel scene, Jesus is indeed passing on new insights to his hearers. Yet another crucial component of learning is letting go—of old interpretations, of misinformation, or of limited understandings. For many students, surrendering familiar assumptions is the hardest part of learning, and it appears to be a challenge for Jesus’ interlocutors too. (From *Give us this day today*, Jessica Coblentz is an assistant professor of religious studies and theology at Saint Mary’s College (Notre Dame, Indiana).

It makes me think that my challenge in 317 is to get the students to let go as much as it is to learn something new.

---

Great break at counselor today. I told her she had ground our marriage into the ground.

---

Work on the liturgies.

Can't imagine that there is something left in the relationship.

---

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 03 / 25 / 04:56:51 /
tags: ['March 2021,conflict']

I acknowledge regret today. I woke early and rehearsed in my mind over and over these words. I don't remember acknowledging regret. I knew that somehow regret was a sign of disease. I didn't want to acknowledge it; so I hid it from myself. I guess. Perhaps it is only that I able to admit a number of things today because I look about me and all there is is ruination. Broken relationships. I really don't know if there is a marriage to be saved at this point. Broken trust. She said I forced her to "throw her son under a bus," but I think that the fact that she has announced that I am never to defend her, that I don't have a right to quietly suggest to her son that he was being disrespectful to her, or to her sisters – I'm not family – that all these together add up to sand falling through my fingers.

The regret, however, is about Bridget. I regret ever having entered into the relationship. She has poisoned my relation with members of my family: Owen, Shirley, Miriam, Lydia, Emma. The contempt of her waking out while I was preaching speaks loudly. It used to be that I could say that I was grateful for the 2 lights in my life. But they despise me, seem to have no positive memories of having been loved beyond measure. I regret having married her.

---

In my walk I settled on what felt right to me. It's related to the insight above. My well known story about the husband and wife, celebrating their 50th anniversary, and the wife rejecting his gift of the heel of the bread. I feel that Mary Pat has consistently rejected my heel. Lydia and Emma also rejected my heel. (i.e. my favorite part of the loaf).

In my story what do I imagine is the result of the blow-up between the man and woman? After 50 years do they separate? I think probably not. Something similar was in the movie *Leisure Seeker* that we watched the other night. Helen Mirren / Donald Sutherland. She discovers just before their end that he had had an affair with their long-time neighbor. She moved past it – with pain. But the plan all along had been to end their suffering.

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 03 / 27 / 23:03:59 /

I lost all of the labor I put into the words for this.  But, no, I didn't lose it. It's still there. Ah, thank you Lord.

---

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 03 / 31 / 14:53:30 /
tags: ['Bible,March 2021']

Courtney using the **Passion Bible**. <https://youtu.be/2EtXBxAuZ3g> provides a review to argue that it is an "interpretive paraphrase" or perhaps a "targum" which is a paraphrase with commentary additions. Seemingly a charismatic version that would be opposed by evangelical type. "Enhancing the likeability of the Bible." For "hyper charismatic" types.

^Ephesians\ 2:13^ But now in Christ Jesus you who once were far off have been brought near by the blood of Christ. ^14^ For he is our peace; in his flesh he has made both groups into one and has broken down the dividing wall, that is, the hostility between us.

---

I made some progress in notes and rough ideas about the sermons for Easter. I spent too many hours on reinstalling MX-plasma onto the desktop in the office. I had multiple graphics issues with the Chromebook. Then I became persuaded that I had an insoluble problem with the sound card on the Desktop. So I went for it with MX-Plasma. So far I'm really pretty pleased with both the feel and the stability of what I'm dealing with. I had to compile Emacs and that was quite an ordeal. But it's done and it runs very nicely in v. 28. Samba continues to be inscrutable, but Dropbox and pCloud are working. In fact because I preserved the "home" partition, a lot of things just kind of naturally flowed into working order.

I'm still not very clear about what is different using the "Plasma" interface. It's not X-11 or GTK I think. Both of those things were used to compile emacs and I couldn't see that there was anything else.

But tomorrow I've got to get to work on grading. Sermon in the background?

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 04 / 01 / 22:55:50 /

I am so discouraged. See the extensive notes taken in Joplin related to my visit with Linda. The gods were speaking to her today about Dorothy Day. I contributed to that. But I think the gods were speaking to me about misfiring. About missing. About alienation. About communication aborted.

Just so discouraged that there is a path back.

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 04 / 02 / 15:56:43 /
## Lydia called!

I had just got back from a **very productive** morning. I finished 2 sermons. Cleaned out the study for Amy. Went to the dump, Goodwill, and cleaned off the pollen from the car. Made the copies of Sunday's bulletin.

She called to say thank you for the Easter Card. I learned that Nick has the children we see – they get them every other weekend. He had a "tire warehouse" job for 12 years, had a conflict, and has returned now for a couple of years. Starting in May she is going to begin work to get an MA and a teaching certificate from an online institution. They have a hub in No. IN, but are based in Kalamazoo. She needs it to keep her job – she's an emergency hire at an elementary school. She will be traveling to west coast to meet up with Emma and will drive back to Indiana.

She talked of years long plans with Nick, upgrading their house etc. It is located just down from St. Michael's. Currently they are remodeling. House has 2 bedrooms, but a loft that is livable and a basement that can be made to be so.

She said that Nick helps her to feel good about herself. And that that's welcome. **Ah~\ I\ have\ known\ that\ so\ well\ for\ the\ past\ 15\ years\ at\ least,\ or\ more.**

—

Amy\ listens\ to\ science\ blog:\ *This\ week\ in\ science*\ also\ *The\ Daily*

**~**

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 04 / 04 / 15:10:23 /

One of the parishioners at St. Paul's remembered my sermon about Miriam's baptism – asking if Amy was the daughter I "wok'd". I am humbled.

Lydia reported that Nick made her "feel good about myself."

Preached at Great Falls and Monroe. There was a real congregation at St. Peter's. St. Paul's felt magnificent in the garden. Lots of people contributed to making the garden work.


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 04 / 05 / 22:34:20 /
tags: ['Winthrop,April 2021']

Today I pulled out Mom's knit afghan, intending to fix it or get it fixed. And to give it, I think, to Miriam. But maybe Lydia?

Tonight I saw the space station make its transit across the sky. In the back yard from just above the fence to disappearing in the clouds of the eastern sky. Mary Pat wanted to include and be with Sean.

Meeting with the WU department, Takita mistakenly described me as having a "terminal degree", and so qualified. Peter reiterated that I was qualified to teach the courses, as if he was trying to camouflage that I didn't have that degree. The department has depended on me adding to their statistics for the University. They are so small and weak.

I got so much working on the faces of the 2 computers that failed on me last week. I recognized that's why I missed some emails.

That, and I had some success with trying to preach Easter.

Julian and Lydia have called to thank us for the money. Miriam, I think may not recognize it yet, for whatever reason.

In reflecting with Mary Pat on the Department's being in an Interim interim position and jockeying for where it's headed, noting that I am important to them, I said they have no purchase on me, no leverage with me. I can say, "No thanks at any time."


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 04 / 06 / 23:19:05 /
tags: ['April 2021,conflict']

It was like a dream turned into a nightmare. We watched 2 episodes of *Outlander*. Geillis and Jamaica, White Witch, and jewels. And love is in the air. I went off to pee. I assumed MP went too. Then when I emerged, I heard sounds. Sounds that were like moans or groans. I didn't know what it was. I saw the closed bathroom door. So I opened it, asking is anything wrong. But it was Sean. Peeing. Evidently singing cause he happy. He stated, "No, I'm fine."

But I wasn't fine for seeing him there. I expected to see Mary Pat. I didn't expect anything to be wrong, but I've trained or rehearsed responding to her calls for help. Someday it will be important.

And instead it was him! Ugh. You've overspent your welcome. You're not living in reality, Dude.

Last thing tonight, she was doing a "Poor me" rendition and said, "You'll be happier with me gone." All I was trying to do is put a limit on how much TV I watched. She said, "Sometimes I just have it on. Probably when I'm gone you won't have the TV on at all."

That's true. I hope we get to a place where that's OK with her. It's OK with me, but not her, I think.


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 04 / 07 / 22:40:23 /
tags: ['April 2021,conflict']

I haven't recorded that the information was reported to me for the first time in counseling session yesterday was that Sean will not be staying at the house while Mary Pat is gone. In the session she tried to bring back the accusations that I hated Sean and rejected him and she would never do that with my children, and blah, blah, blah. All of it not true and beside the point.

So today I meditated again and again on Sean not being able to deal with me. I had assured that there was no problem there. MP said that she had objected to Sean doing that, but "it's his decision."  There is just so much that is not acceptable to me.

So, now at the end of the evening, he's going to move out. I intend to change the code on the garage door. Mary Pat is going to concentrate on family and grieving issues. Janet has assigned us to concentrate on "**dating**" behavior. It's not really clear to me what that is. "Focus on hope." "The kinds of things we did when dating and getting to know one another." Flowers. Little notes.

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 04 / 09 / 22:18:16 /

46 min. talk with Bill. He says that next week David & Laura are meeting up at their place. Then will travel to CA. David has inquired with Mary and Charlotte about possibly moving to Albuquerque with Laura. They said that if he did that he could **retire**.

Sam (of Lee Detwiler) is transferring to Santa Fe – bringing with a bunch of friends (wealthy). Santa Fe is 6 hours or so drive for them.

Bill reports that Feds are requiring a PIN of everyone? Just like Sean was saying?

Bill wonders about Miriam. Figures Owen is just non-communicative as usual.

Touched base with Wendy who will be Eucharistic Minister with me. She suggested a time to address the gun violence that touches us ...

Gave scooter to Ehab Hamed (for Duha). When I asked, he seemed delighted when I told him how I would pronounce his name – he said, "You said it exactly right." but apparently it's problematic around these parts. He's called "Eee" at work.

---

Probably the most important thing from Bill's phone call was something Bill said, acknowledged. When I asked him about the children and their relative lack of responses, among the things he responded with was about Emma. He said that he and Karla had had recent conversations about the fact that Emma had mentioned at the time of her wedding that she hoped there would be a time soon when there could be a proper celebration. Bill was conflicted about that in as much as he felt that he couldn't go if I was not invited. Karla, on the other hand, did not see Bill's point of view at all.

I recognize their 2 perspectives as reflecting where they have been in phone conversations with me.

It makes a difference that Bill wants to be "on my side." On the other side, I don't see how anyone could see that it's ok for me not to know what the accusation against me is. And thus unable to mount a defense or a counter-narrative, or just to provide evidence that it wasn't true.


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 04 / 10 / 00:45:51 /
tags: ['April 2021,discernment']

What discernment was going on here?


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 04 / 11 / 16:42:32 /
tags: ['April 2021,love']

From MP's facebook page (repost)

Anne Lamott
Yesterday at 2:19 AM  ·
It’s not every day a girl turns 67. I never thought I’d see 18, and then 21, and then 30, and then fifty! Half a century old. 17 years ago. And now here I am on Medicare, married two years ago to the coolest guy, with feet that hurt almost all the time, a mind that scares me with its increasing forgetfulness and snags, and a heart so filled with love some days that I feel like a moony teenager and probably should not be behind the wheel.
Other days, not so much.

It’s frustrating to lose cognitive function, and for everything to ache the day after a hike. I take some medicine at night but ten minutes later, I can’t be positive if I took it or not, and I have to compensate in a dozen ways for my constant distraction. I got a car five years ago designed for people who probably should not be driving. It has Keebler elves hidden behind the dashboard that beep when I am about to hit another car, or when the car in front of me has moved. The elves wipe at their forehands at each near miss.

This is SO not who I am. You’ve got to believe me. I was the smartest girl in my algebra class junior year. I was a tennis champ. Now when I get out of bed in the morning, I limp around like Walter Brennan, and then I limp around off and on all day trying to remember what I am limping around looking for. There’s a story in the new book about accidentally taking the dog’s medicine, which was banned for humans by the FDA. I called the vet and sad, “Oh, I’m sure you get this all the time.” She said No, not really.

Yet this might be the happiest I’ve ever been. The original title of Dusk Night Dawn was The Third Third, about the great blessings of being older—the self-forgiveness, the grace of myopia, of not seeing everyone’s flaws so clearly, the pleasures of a much quieter life, of slower and more attentive walks. But more than anything, the great blessing, the reason for my deep faith in life and God, is the minuet of old friendships.

As John Merrick, the Elephant Man said, “My life is full because  know that I am loved.” That is exactly and 100% my truth. I learned in the third third of my life that love is all there is, that we are Love with skin on, that Blake was right when he wrote that we are here to learn to endure the beams of love. Love can be hard. We’re good at hard.

I wrote in the new book, “Love is gentle if sometimes amused warmth for annoying and deeply disappointing people, especially ourselves. Love is someone who will draw near when you cry. Love plops in front of the TV with a bowl of popcorn and you. Love plops but love also flies. Love reveals the beauty of sketchy people like us to ourselves. Love holds up the sacred mirror. Love builds rickety greenhouses for our wilder seeds to grow. Love can be reckless (Jesus is good at this), or meek as my dog, or carry a briefcase. Love is the old man in the park teaching little kids to play the violin; much time spent tuning, the children hearing their way into the key he is playing. Love tiptoes and love lumbers like an elephant, it naps on top of your chest like a cat. It gooses you, snickers, smooths your hair. Love is being with a person wherever they are, however they are acting. Ugh. (A lot of things seem to come more easily to God.)

My life is full and I am grateful to the point of tears on my 67th birthday because I know I am loved. I just wanted to share that with you.


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 04 / 12 / 14:02:52 /
tags: ['April 2021,conflict']

To Miriam, who asked if she could share her gift with Emma.

> It was a gift. It’s not a gift if it comes with conditions, that would be an exchange. I’m working hard these days at not triangulating. Emma has harshly rejected every effort I have made even to make contact to say nothing of having a relationship. Nevertheless she would have received the same check as you if I had any contact information that would’ve made that possible.

---

*Hemingway* by Ken Burns. Watching the first episode. I am personally drawn in. He grew up in Oak Park. Father a physician. Was it mother who used to talk about him?

He said, "All you have to do is write one true sentence. Write the truest sentence that you know." I have this sense that I have been doing some of that in these last years of my life. That I am doing it even now. writing

It reminds me of my mantra about preaching. "Seek to speak in complete sentences." But also, seek for that leadership of worship where people will say, "I'm glad I was here." So many people when I share those thoughts don't seem to understand.

---

The end of one of his short stories (read by Edna O'Brien) goes, "... please, please, please, please, please (I don't know how many) stop talking." The speaker a woman who has been talking with her lover about having an abortion.

It was striking to me, because I had just hung up the phone with Mary Pat. She had tuned me out when I had just got going, passionately talking about Linux and WU. But she had tuned me out. As if she spoke those words. And in the context of the story, where Edna O'Brien clearly hears that *pathos* of the woman, I ask myself, "What do I need to hear about myself in this?" How am I being self-centered? Only concerned with my vantage point, and missing the really important stuff?"

I don't know.


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 04 / 13 / 07:11:50 /
tags: ['April 2021,conflict']

Going to Tenini today. Mary Pat seems to think that I am keeping things from him. I'm trying hard not to.

* sleep sometimes difficult
* unhappy period (coming to an end?)
* pain in left arm, shakiness and weakness
* sore that abides
* lumps
* 2 vaccines

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 04 / 15 / 09:20:49 /

EAP with CPG.
For Support (866) 802-6333

eap 866-395-7794 cigna 24 hrs

This was a direct line for Pension Fund members although the person I spoke with didn't seem to be entirely clear about that. She wanted to know Erin's full name in order to verify that she was still there. I didn't know it. Finally found it in checkvist: Erin E Stuck, Lpc.

Authorized for 10 sessions in 2021. Secure email (for which I have to make a password) should be sent "within the hour"

Authorization #: (given 4/18/21)

218 646 996
good til 10/12/21
10 sessions

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 04 / 16 / 08:10:52 /

Bezos on 5 important words: [INC](https://www.inc.com/bill-murphy-jr/with-5-short-words-jeff-bezos-just-shared-a-brutal-truth-most-people-never-learn.html)
This is where Bezos shares a simple, brutal truth that so many people never learn, before using the remainder of the letter to make his case that Amazon actually lives up to this ideal.

The five words? "[Create more than you consume](https://www.aboutamazon.com/news/company-news/2020-letter-to-shareholders?tag=wwwinccom-20)."

Here's the context:

> "If you want to be successful in business (in life, actually), you have to create more than you consume. Your goal should be to create value for everyone you interact with. Any business that doesn't create value for those it touches, even if it appears successful on the surface, isn't long for this world. It's on the way out."

---

Storyline

Alan is a stylish tailor with moves as sharp as his suits. He has spent years searching tirelessly for his missing son Michael who stormed out over a game of scrabble. With a body to identify and his family torn apart, Alan must repair the relationship with his youngest son Peter and solve the mystery of an online player who he thinks could be Michael, so he can finally move on and reunite his family.

*Sometimes, Always, Never*
Bill Nighy and Marmite

12 July 2019 | by backofthevan – See all my reviews

I will watch pretty much any film with the wonderful Bill Nighy. Just watched this one and not sure what I think of it. His character, wildly knowledgeable when it comes to Scrabble, was 100% wrong when he stated that Marmite is banned in Canada. No, my friend, it definitely isn't. I have a jar in my own cupboard. I actually had to have a look and confirm that it is, indeed, Marmite, and not the poor substitute Vegemite (which he claimed was the only option for Canadians). Marmite has been available here for at least 10 years and, since the film obviously takes place in the present, he was just plain wrong.

Now I'm thinking that if the availability of Marmite is my lingering thought after seeing this film, how memorable was it? It DOES meander, as others have said. It DOES try awfully hard to be visually quirky to the point of being absurd at times. It does convey somewhat the damage done to people when someone they love goes missing. There's no closure; they spend their lives from that point on grieving, wondering, blaming, searching and, likely, never really having a carefree moment again. That was certainly brought home to me in all its sadness. If you need cheering up, this is not the film for you.

Is this a vitally important film? No. Not even sure why it was made. It's like reading a short story, which is what it was based on, finished in 90 minutes or so and easily forgotten.

A small film about big topics that balances an overarching feel of sorrow with heavy doses of whimsy. Eloquent both visually and emotionally, it speaks volumes about heartbreak even when the characters can't quite find the words to do so themselves. (Richard Crouse)

---

Trailers

1. biopic on Errol Flynn (just saw reference to him in Hemingway) *In like Flynn*
1. *Swinging Safari* slapstick but quirky?
1. *Madame*  role reversals, but quirky too?

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 04 / 21 / 23:20:24 /

Sean,
I regard you as essentially a coward. You are unable to be honest. You  are essentially manipulative and intent on doing your own self-interested purposes. Ah, you would like to proclaim to the world that you are altruistic and looking out for others. Trying to serve others' interests. Your refusal to engage me these past few weeks was all about trying to cater to my needs. Give me a break. You haven't a clue as to my needs. You don't have the courage to be a true healer, a true breaker o f the bonds. You are a con from the get go.

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 04 / 26 / 23:59:54 /

From the lectures on Genesis, some real learnings.

1. That a Jewish reading can focus on what the theological point of it all is.
1. That a focus on narrative can have real fruit. He rejects the JEPD theory. He rejects the minimalist (historiography) view of the patriarchs. It is reasonable.
1. The pattern of the 3 patriarchs: Abraham (cycle/saga), Jacob, Joseph (his is a story/epic) is chiasm owed to readings dating from from  1970's [I'll have to look up the scholars].
1. the theological point of the Genesis story is: 1) God's in charge, 2) focus on history, 3) what matters is what you do

---

Why the deep sense of connection with *Outlander*. We're watching the beginning of season 4. Brianna and Roger are on their way to "America". There is a season 5 only available on *Hulu*.

is it the

* love interest?
* the time travel?
* the "underdog" theme – cf. the *Genesis* theme presented as advocating for the underdog: women, *ultimogenitur* vs. primogenitur, 2nd sons, the outcasts.


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 04 / 27 / 16:28:57 /
tags: ['April 2021,conflict']

Margaret G. reports that student comments from HXMP most often comment on "Self and the Sacred", wanting more.

---

It's kind of breath-taking the way Mary Pat discounted me when I opened the gifts that BIll sent me. It was music: SC Beach music and 1968 music. The first thing MP suggested was that we had too many CD's and I needed to have a way to get rid of them.

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 04 / 29 / 18:13:19 /

Session with Linda – See Joplin entry – ended with the admonition: "Do it with contemplative step-by-step. With **non-duality.**

Insight from Contemplative Bible Study:

1. I am the Vine, God is the Farmer. Is a reminder that it's not about me. God is looking at a garden that is lush, at a vineyard full of vines. And I'm only one among the vines or plants. Pruning is something that is done across the whole garden. It's not about me.
1. For the first time as I read the image about pruning, it was a positive thing. From the gardener's perspective, pruning isn't a painful thing at all. It is taking care of the garden. It is nurturing. It is ensuring fruitfulness.


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 04 / 30 / 09:32:08 / beneficiary issues
tags: ['April 2021,task']

My $50K life insurance with Church Pension. MP presumes that she is the beneficiary if I die first. But she suggests "Lydia as a contingent beneficiary in case both of us die together. $50k is a small amount and rather than divide it up give to the one who has the largest clump of financial needs." I'm not sure I wouldn't include Julian, and Emma if she ever decided to talk to me.

Change this with Pension Fund.

Also change the moving allowance: now it says MP as primary, then Owen, Julian, Miriam are contingent recipients. Probably make children primary: divide 4 ways, 5 ways?

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 04 / 30 / 23:23:46 /

Reproduce the passion and energy of my ad lib words at today's funeral for Kay & her husband. It was old stuff, but just simply vocalized. It was good.


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 05 / 01 / 13:07:01 /
tags: ['May 2021,conflict']

From Mary Pat and read to me in couples counseling session 4/28/21.

Dale:

You have said that I have changed, and our relationship has changed, since Sean came. I agree that I have changed; a lot of events have caused significant change, even before last summer.

Three years ago I had foot surgery that left me essentially an invalid for most of the year, very dependent on you for everything. Only recently have I felt completely back to normal; driving Sean to and from work was a positive influence on my independence. It may have seemed like I didn't need you anymore; I certainly didn't need you in the same way, but I always need your love and affection.

• Two years ago I retired, after almost 50 years of teaching. That was a huge change. At first we traveled a lot, to Hawaii, to Ohio, to Florida, and I didn't miss teaching so much.  Then I was hired to do professional development with teachers, and that was interesting and fulfilling. COVID shut that down. I still haven't found my purpose, as many of the things I had thought about doing after retirement were blocked by COVID restrictions.  Perhaps I threw myself into Sean's rehabilitation more than I should have. I never meant to exclude you; in fact I looked forward to working with you to provide the assistance he needed. You have knowledge and experience in working with addicts and in the past had been very supportive and caring when it came to Sean.

• My mother's health went into a steep decline in fall 2019, and worry about her and uncertainty about what I could do occupied me for the next 15 months. Now she is gone, and it was such a blessing to be able to be with her at the moment of death. The time I spent with my siblings this month was really wonderful. It reinforced my understanding of family. Mom and Dad taught us to love one another, and the people we introduced to our family (friends and lovers), to try hard to understand and accept each other especially when we disagree, to work out our differences even if it just means to agree to disagree. That has always been my understanding of family, and it's the relationship I want to have with you and with all the people connected with you.

• Since the beginning of our relationship, 10 years ago, it has been the two of us. We did almost everything together; you even went to math conferences. Suddenly last summer we opened our home to another person. Certainly that changed things for all of us. We did not have children together, but this could be an opportunity to co-parent in our old age. I am so sorry if I misunderstood your reservations about inviting him to come in the first place, and if it seemed I was excluding you in any way. Sean will be with us a while longer. I don't see how we can throw him out; we committed to the Parole Board to provide him with a place to stay until he could live on his own. How can we work together for the next few weeks or months to reconnect with each other and work together to support Sean in his recovery?


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 05 / 04 / 11:10:00 /
tags: ['May 2021,Church,Christ Church']

Talking with Gordon about Lancaster (Christ Church)

* 3-4 at an early service, but they will probably consolidate that by June
* communion has been handled: serious handwashing, tongs to place host on platter, platter placed centrally. Gordon says that some really want to be able to kneel, so that may be moved by June
* a few ultra-conservative, but many others leftish. mixed-race couple, gay couple, etc.
* they've had music for a while

<https://www.facebook.com/156306834424570/videos/216220716795980>

1. Gordon sits on right, front, next to pulpit
1. speaks from center
1. mask at opening
1. his mic is focused on the video. it is clipped to his stole, not wearing chasuble.
1. gospel is on altar. retrieves it and reads from center. returns it before preaching.
1. sermon: 24" – 50"
1. mask back on after prayers
1. mask during eucharistic prayer
1. tray brought from credence after eucharistic prayer, hosts spread out on it from the ciborium
1. Gordon carried the tray and handed individual hosts to hands of people


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 05 / 05 / 06:55:22 /
tags: ['conflict,gratitude,May 2021']

conflict Yesterday, MP could not think of anything that I could do that would please her. I emphasized that I was suggesting something small and limited. I thought, "How wonderfully "Catch 22" of her – there's nothing I can do that would satisfy her." Finally she came up with, "Put breakfast dishes in the dishwasher – don't leave them on the counter."

I am so offended, after all the dishes I've done over the years, how thoroughly I clean the kitchen when I do it, and that's what she finds to be irritated about.

I think that all I am to her is **irritations.** My hair on the carpet. She washes my clothes – but she was furious when I set about to do my own laundry. She imagines that her efforts are all that keep this household going.

**I'm ready to give up.**

---

gratitude cf. Miriam's list of gratitudes on her Facebook page today. "A week of struggle" for her.

so to, here today from de Chardin

A Book Excerpt on Gratitude
Twitter
Facebook
Link
Print
" 'Blessed be you, harsh matter, barren soil, stubborn rock: you who yield only to violence, you who force us to work if we would eat.

" 'Blessed be you, perilous matter, violent sea, untamable passion: you who unless we fetter you will devour us.

" 'Blessed be you, mighty matter, irresistible march of evolution, reality ever newborn; you who, by constantly shattering our mental categories, force us to go ever further and further in our pursuit of the truth.

" 'Blessed be you, universal matter, immeasurable time, boundless ether, triple abyss of stars and atoms and generations: you who by overflowing and dissolving our narrow standards of measurement reveal to us the dimensions of God.

" 'Blessed be you, impenetrable matter: you who, interposed between our minds and the world of essences, cause us to languish with the desire to pierce through the seamless veil of phenomena.

" 'Blessed be you, mortal matter: you who one day will undergo the process of dissolution within us and will thereby take us forcibly into the very heart of that which exists.

" 'Without you, without your onslaughts, without your uprooting of us, we should remain all our lives inert, stagnant, puerile, ignorant both of ourselves and of God. You who batter us and then dress our wounds, you who resist us and yield to us, you who wreck and build, you who shackle and liberate, the sap of our souls, the hand of God, the flesh of Christ: it is you, matter, that I bless.

" 'I bless you, matter, and you I acclaim: not as the pontiffs of science or the moralizing teachers depict you, debased, disfigured — a mass of brute forces and base appetites — but as you reveal yourself to me today, in your totality and your true nature. . . .

" 'I acclaim you as the divine milieu, charged with creative power, as the ocean stirred by the Spirit, as the clay molded and infused with life by the incarnate Word. . . .

" 'Raise me up then, matter, to those heights, through struggle and separation and death; raise me up until, at long last, it becomes possible for me in perfect chastity to embrace the universe."

---

You who batter us and then dress our wounds, you who resist us and yield to us, you who wreck and build, you who shackle and liberate, the sap of our souls, the hand of God, the flesh of Christ:it is you, matter, that I bless.

From *Earth Prayers* and Google

---

C.S. Lewis on **The Presence of God**

*Posted on November 22, 2013 by Charles Heck*

“We may ignore, but we can nowhere evade, the presence of God. The world is crowded with him. He walks everywhere incognito. And the incognito is not always hard to penetrate. The real labor is to remember, to attend … in fact to come awake. Still more, to remain awake.”

– C.S. Lewis in *Letters to Malcolm: Chiefly on Prayer*


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 05 / 06 / 18:36:05 /
tags: ['conflict,May 2021']
## Insight:

Mary Pat has had an interest in maintaining that the issue between us was Sean. Going back at least to the time during prayer when she asked me when I was going to forgive Sean. As long as she maintains that I "hate" Sean, she has the high road to an impregnable case against me. But she has also been the one to argue that the conflict between us pre-dates Sean so that it isn't "Sean's fault."

Strange bedfellows or some such metaphor.
## Further broken trust:

I have wondered over the past day about the money we had agreed that Sean would pay for room and board. I asked where the money was. She responded that he hasn't paid anything – she wanted to launch into a self-justification that he had wanted to pay cash but she didn't want that  – but I cut her off, saying I just wanted information.

It should be something like $5,000.00. But my only serious request has been ignored.

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 05 / 07 / 10:48:14 /

---

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 05 / 11 / 09:19:45 /
tags: ['Owen,May 2021']

I thought I might try to find the words to express your vital place in my life. There may not be anything I say here that is surprising to you. Then it's only a useful exercise for me. Some of what I want to say I have taken for granted that you knew. I could be wrong. I have been wrong about so many things in my life. Many times my instinct was right. Too often, I think, my stamina wasn't vibrant enough.

I think of how I responded to the two times I took leader falls while rock climbing. Each time my rope and anchors held and the person “on belay” caught me — it might have been Mark Jansen on both occasions. In his adulthood he has suffered from debilitating mental illness. My response was to become more and more afraid of rock climbing, and of falling generally, that eventually I couldn’t do it at all. I went from the fearlessness of youth to continually telling myself “I am a coward.” It wasn’t true, of course, but became a linchpin for my ability to go into uncomfortable settings and do what needed to be done. Sometimes grace was palpable. Sometimes not. But it was always real.

My determination not to have children seems connected with those inner messages. It started with a strong determination not to have children. Various decisions ensued that felt to me like the "cowardice" I told myself about my climbing experience. Then in the time it takes God to wink an eye, I found myself in the delivery room. I had been utterly wrong about the decision not to have children. As Chesterton said of Christianity: "The Christian ideal has not been tried and found wanting; it has been found difficult and left untried." So much I didn't know. It had been a challenging time during delivery. Obviously your mother had to endure things I would never have to go through myself, except in so far as my empathy could carry me there. We didn't know the gender. The cry. Then the doctor asked, "What's his name?"

I cried and cried and cried. I had not cried for years at that time. I had accepted the criticism of others that perhaps I wasn't able to cry or express emotion. Then like a river bursting its banks, through a wash of tears, I responded, "Owen".

I can not begin to relate to you how many times I have looked back on those tears of joy. I cannot tell you how many times over the years I have related to others that experience. Often the words have been cathartic for the person who heard them. They broke a logjam to be sure. They were a healing from hurts that went back probably to the general time that my parents divorced. When I sat in the waiting room of a hospital, a great-grandmother who had just lost another family member to a dramatic death, the other pastor, a Buddhist priest, on the other side, and I didn't know what to say or how to respond, those tears showed me the way. Somehow the words I would choose would prove inadequate, but I remembered the tears. Love would prevail.

So many are the ways that your birth saved my life. Try to count the times you have gone ahead and done the things you said to yourself you couldn't do. It's at least that many times.

> What thou lovest well remains,
>
> the rest is dross
>
> What thou lov’st well shall not be reft from thee
>
> What thou lov’st well is thy true heritage (Ezra Pound *Canto 81*)

He wrote this after the catastrophe of the 30's and 40's and his calamitous part in the history of fascism, for which he was imprisoned and caged like an animal.

After leaving the darkness of the madness of silence, in his final years he wrote:

> Can you enter the great acorn of light?
>
> but the beauty is not the madness
>
> Tho my errors and wrecks lie about me.
>
> and I cannot make it cohere
>
> If love be not in the house there is nothing,
>
> The voice of famine unheard. (from *Canto 116*)

Your birth, those tears, helped me to understand in ever deeper ways. When I first read Pound in my early 20's, I knew his words resonated somehow deep within me. There was a longing perhaps. But you, Owen, allowed me learn something about love. You taught me deeply and to the quick. Not that I haven't loved others since, and recognizing that I didn't know how I had loved your mother until you were in your teens, I date my entrance into love to the time of your birth. Those tears at your birth have shown me the way through the decades of my life. "The errors and wrecks lie about me" to be sure. But I have done some things well. I could not have done them without you. You showed me that I could.

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 05 / 11 / 21:36:45 /

Jim & Sharon (neighbor of Peter & Christina) conversation at Peter's retirement party. Several related insights. I said Most people want to be **Right** but it is more important to be **present**.

How respond to people being blatantly racist (or gender issues, sexual etc) in your presence. Options:

1. ignore it to keep the peace
1. confront and cause conflict
1. challenge and help to bring about change
1. ??****

WH Auden 3 things worth talking about: sex, politics, and religion. But in the last few months I thought I acknowledged that there was a 4th worth talking about.

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 05 / 12 / 11:56:16 /

WU:
Recruitment needs to go up. Develop social-justice program? Some other things? Maybe absorbed by another department, but keep the same degree program. Talk with Greg from Religion meeting today.

From Lackner awards (Mary Buchwalder):

* A mother: Bloom where you're planted.
* A sister: Be where your feet are.

Charlotte:
Catherine Massey & bishop meet with vestry on Monday.
She wanted to know if I would be open to considering some kind of interim position.


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 05 / 14 / 10:48:03 /
tags: ['Dorothy Day,Jeremiah,May 2021']
## Reflection from *Give us this day for today*

> I can really relate to her passion. To her bewilderment. I learn that perhaps I need to identify with Jeremiah in a way I never have before.

**An Invitation Confirmed**

“Macrina,” the Lord said one day, “I haven’t heard an Amen for a long, long time.”

“No more Amens from me, Lord,” I answered. “I can’t say Amen to dead and crumbling leaves, to blood poured out, and broken, ugly things. It’s obvious I’ve made a mistake, a wrong choice. I’m taking my baptism back.”

“Macrina,” the Lord said again, “you didn’t choose me. I chose you. And I’m not taking your baptism back.”

At that moment my frightened, wintered heart remembered Jeremiah, and I bowed my head and prayed, “Jeremiah, I identify with you in your lament to the Lord. I, too, feel duped! (Jeremiah 20:7-9) Somehow He’s got the best of me and I can’t get away. I’m standing here with my baptism in my hands wondering what to do with it. . . . I don’t know what to do with such demand or such love. But it’s too late. I’ve already accepted. I walked around a long time with that invitation in my heart before I said my Amen. But then one day I confirmed that invitation. I said yes to everything that God and the Church and all those faith-filled people who love me were asking of me. . . . [Now] I stand here not only with my baptism in my hands, but confirmed and fed and healed as well. God has hold of me and I can’t get away. I feel forever compelled to carry within me, and live out of me, these signs of God’s love. Yes, Jeremiah! We must be twins. There’s a fire burning in my heart too. And it’s stronger than the fear.”

So once again I find myself proclaiming: Amen, my Lord, Amen!

Sr. Macrina Wiederkehr, *Seasons of Your Heart*

---

Watched the 1996 film on Dorothy Day: **Entertaining Angels**

It reminded me of how much she has been the running theme of my life. Michael Stolpman was an echo of her. IHS in Honolulu. When I prayed with Noreen, visited Mary, fed the outcast at Stadium Park. The notion that God's is encountered in the most ordinary and mundane. That the God of the Universe could work through Episcopalians who have never been entirely comfortable with what it meant to be Episcopalian.

*Macrina Wiederkehr, OSB, (d. April 2020) made her home with the Sisters of St. Scholastica in Fort Smith, Arkansas.*


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 05 / 15 / 10:01:43 /
tags: ['liminal,wrestling with God,attention,teaching,May 2021']

liminal “The world is the closed door. It is a barrier. And at the same time it is the way through.

Two prisoners whose cells adjoin communicate with each other by knocking on the wall. The wall is the thing which separates them but it is also their means of communication. … Every separation is a link.”
― Simone Weil, *Gravity and Grace*

“It seemed to me certain, and I still think so today, that one can never wrestle enough with God if one does so out of pure regard for the truth. Christ likes us to prefer truth to him because, before being Christ, he is truth. If one turns aside from him to go toward the truth, one will not go far before falling into his arms. ”
― Simone Weil

“Attention, taken to its highest degree, is the same thing as prayer. It presupposes faith and love. Absolutely unmixed attention is prayer.”
― Simone Weil, *Simone Weil: An Anthology*

“Attention is the rarest and purest form of generosity.”
― Simone Weil

“The most important part of teaching is to teach what it is to know. ”
― Simone Weil

“The joy of learning is as indispensable in study as breathing is to running.”
― Simone Weil, *Waiting for God*


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 05 / 21 / 06:19:42 /
tags: ['Lydia,May 2021']

I evidently lost a whole series of edits when I was reflecting on the visit with Lydia.

Nick's birthday Sept 1 (or 3) 1982. He's a father-figure to Lydia. His oldest is 11 years Lydia's junior.

Lydia seems motivated to get her degree. Nick admires her for her skill with children. She acknowledge having learned how to respond to children while at her old job.

They reported that Lydia cried and cried at the thought that her trip next month will likely be her last.

Nick clearly wants to impress us – but at the same time he is kind of a simple, this is what you get, sort of person – all in a good way.

Lydia seemed to relate well to Mary Pat. Perhaps she appreciates now the dynamics that existed as Mary Pat and I came together. She and Nick have "had 2 Christmases" together, but Nick's divorce only became final in November 2020.

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 05 / 21 / 22:28:09 /
## Reflection

**Joy and Peace—Whatever Happens**

*And when Jesus had said this, he said to Peter, “Follow me.”*

It seems to me that I have greater peace and am close to God when I am not “trying to be a contemplative” or trying to be anything special, but simply orienting my life fully and completely towards what seems to be required of a man like me at a time like this.

I am obscurely convinced that there is a need in the world for something I can provide and that there is a need for me to provide it. True, someone else can do it, God does not need me. But I feel He is asking me to provide it.

At the consecration of my Mass I suddenly thought of the words: “If you love me, feed my sheep!”

The wonder of being brought, by God, around a corner and to realize a new road is opening up, perhaps—which He alone knows. And that there is no way of traveling it but in Christ and with Him. This is joy and peace—whatever happens. The result does not matter. I have something to do for Him and, if I do that, everything else will follow.

Thomas Merton, *Journals*

Thomas Merton (1915–1968) was a Trappist monk of the Abbey of Gethsemani. He is widely esteemed as a writer and spiritual master.


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 05 / 22 / 08:22:58 /
tags: ['MyFamily,alienation,May 2021']

Among her sisters, Rita stood out for her extraordinary spirit of obedience. In a test, her superior ordered her to water and care for a dead vine in the garden. Faithfully she carried out her assignment each day. (St. Rita is widely invoked as a patron of hopeless causes.) ( From *give us this day* today)
## Where We Stand

“Comparisons are odious.” I first heard the saying when I was growing up, and I loved it. The quote reminded me that comparing myself to others often led to pain and anxiety. Whether I worried that others were better than me or had a false sense of superiority, the result inevitably felt “odious.” And yet I did it anyway. ...

---

Phone call with Bill-Karla. Karla related that the estrangement story goes round and round in our families. With re. hers that she and Karen knew that their step-mother Mary didn't like them. Or didn't like their mother. The 2 of them had been friends in high school.

As to her father, there was deep estrangement, but Karla reported that what had made all the difference was that her father, twice a year, took her out to lunch and asked her what was going on her life. i.e. really listening. She kind of suggested that the rest of the time her father disapproved of Karla.

alienation

He reported that Owen came out pretty sweet financially with his surgery (various insurance payouts). He also observed that there is a nexus with Owen/Shirley/Bridget that leaves him cut off from much of the rest of the family – including Mo apparently. Shirley has given up communicating with David, and in her note to him commented that our mother had stopped being a good parent in 1959 (before David was born).

He reports that Emma is now living in California. She is teaching in Sunnyvale (Silicon Valley) and living in San Jose. He thinks maybe teaching special ed kids? Karla has seen on Facebook that Emma now "has another degree."

---

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 05 / 23 / 06:40:58 /
tags: ['May 2021,dream,alienation']

Dreaming before getting up:

1. Making tortillas, rolling them out, ... how long to cook them? ... getting it just right.
1. Thinking of how Shirley is the lynch pin of the alienation in my family. However you trace it, it comes back to Shirley. Or she's somehow at the center of all dissension. She's a person who sows division.

How do you combat that? family

---

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 05 / 24 / 23:07:19 /
tags: ['May 2021,Church']

sermon on Trinity:

Research:

1. Irrelevant
1. a mystery
1. reflected in Genesis?
1. So many killed over the centuries in the name of ...
1. Mystery – paradox, —> quantum mechanics

---

Dan & Jen re. combating the conspiracy theories and irrational convictions

1. people generally want to be **right** – rather than understand more
1. Jen: better results from seeking a "no" answer than a "yes" answer because lower barriers to a "no" answer – as in e.g. "Is this not a good time to pursue ...?" (answer) "No, this is good."
1. Dan: seek to lead through (Socratic questioning) to an absurd result.
1. Joe Sjostrom & I agree that this is not often resulting in a good response


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 05 / 26 / 05:57:19 /
tags: ['dream,MyFamily,May 2021']

In my dream there was Dad as present and alive as he has been since he was alive. I had just arrived in Hawai'i. I was traveling alone. My luggage was lost for the moment. Earlier there had been a strange figure, who was either stalking me or following me to protect me. He/it was just a head, sitting on the ground. I was with people in that dream, but we were traveling and it was church-related. I was with young people and we had gone to an orientation of some kind. But the "head" announced at the end of it that my ride was gone. We had traveled there in something like the Miata, belonging to someone else, I think, and that person seems to have abandoned me and my companion. family – fathers

Later, then, I was in a conference center sort of place when who should appear before me but Dad. I wasn't shocked to see him, but my first instinct was to avoid him. Then I decided to approach him. He was cordial and not shocked – maybe a little surprised – to see me. He was familiar and friendly to me. It then appeared that he was traveling with Clark Crandall and someone else and that the men were with young people, women, but they didn't seem to be wives. I thought they were daughters.

I had shared with Joe and Tami last night stories about MyFamily.

* Carolyn
* Shirley's "my other was an alcoholic and a nymphomaniac" and her promise to Bill that she wouldn't do that.
* Shirley as the lynch pin of alienation in my family
* said that my father had committed the greatest outrage in my family, so while his effort to get custody was put forward as a "Helen isn't a fit parent" that wasn't the whole story. That had been in response to Joe/Tami trying to identify the source of Shirley's anger at my mom.

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 05 / 28 / 23:42:34 /

betrayals – remembering. Lydia imagines them. Or Emma. Or Bridget. But none of them. alienation


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 05 / 29 / 11:42:50 /
tags: ['May 2021,Church']

Janet Brakefield, St. John's Winnsboro. They were doing 9am when outside to keep it in the cool hours. When they moved inside they went to 10am. Used to be 11am. Averaging 17-20. No circulation in main sanctuary.

---

Dear Frank,

I sent you the link to my sermons because of our friendship, thinking you might be interested. I would be happy to share it with the retired clergy or anybody else that might be interested. It is, again, <http://sermons-fr-hathaway.blogspot.com/>.

I smiled broadly at your inclusion of the Koko Crater photo. My memories of my thrice-weekly discipline of climbing the crater is constantly with me. They help motivate me in my current efforts at spiritual/physical discipline, which includes a 3 mile walk every day. I generally listen to a lecture or blog. I am fond of "On Being" and "Poetry Unbound". I also continue to pay attention to a range of subjects connected with the courses I continue teaching at Winthrop. These include: Introduction to Religious Studies, Introduction to Scripture Studies, Modern Christian Thought, and Introduction to the Hebrew Bible.

Along with the rest of humanity we have made huge adjustments over the last year plus. All of my teaching has been virtual since then. And my supply work has been creative and unlike anything we prepared for in seminary – back in what seems like an aeon ago. The request for my time as supply priest has increased substantially over the last couple of months, as more and more flexibility is available to the churches. I supply in the Diocese of North Carolina and in the Diocese of Upper South Carolina.

Mary Pat retired from Winthrop University in the spring of 2019. That was the last time we saw you all and we did a good bit of travel on the mainland – all up until we didn't any more. March 2019. So we anticipate a slow return to traveling, and even today beginning to plan for a cruise in 2022. Mary Pat's mother died in February, and that has impacted us in both larger and smaller ways. My children are spread from Indiana to Colorado and the west coast. My oldest grand child is scheduled to graduate from college next year. The youngest just entered kindergarten.


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 06 / 01 / 10:59:38 /
tags: ['Church,June 2021']

Christ Church, Lancaster.

1. 10:30 am service, door will be open 9:30, Robert Horton -= reader
1. Gwen (secretary)
1. will be Linda Baker, 803-289-8086
1. lindawbaker@comporium.net


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 06 / 02 / 08:50:10 /
tags: ['June 2021,Church']

Call with Catherine Massey.

919-600-5307
x1
919-604-0990 cell

She lives Lake Forest.

she was watching Brad, admitting that he was being distant even before illness. She has been doing transition 8.5 years. Diocese for 10 years.

Congregation: Fear, separated, tired. 15 clergy team in listening tomorrow, holy listeners, what do you need?

Leadership next? What afford? Uncertainty. TBD.

1. Search process
1. Interim – part-time?
1. What honoring that.
1. All of the things they need? post-covid, post-Jim
1. Have I had interim training.
1. Raleigh: training in interim
1. She hears me being open. Discernment (mine) (theirs). Meet face to face with vestry early next week. Vestry like to hear about options.
1. CPG guidelines.
1. follow up to see how things go
1. Interim person.
1. Like to Elizabeth Dawkin, encourage Zoom meeting.
1. search this time?
1. having choice would helpful.

Once getting into Charlotte not wanting to drive. Supply already serving. Retiring clergy in Charlotte for grandkids.


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 06 / 03 / 09:55:02 /
tags: ['June 2021,SelfReflection']

Meeting with Linda:

1. dreams seemed to reflect an intense identification with the process ongoing with Monroe. Connecting with the diocesan staff. Email from Bp. re. sermon. Planned interview with him.
1. It all portends making big changes in our lives. That part seems exciting to me.
1. It is not moving to the beach.
1. How long are we talking?
1. Unknowns galore.


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
tags: ['June 2021,Church']
# 2021 / 06 / 04 / 08:57:25 /

Your message wasn't delivered to bishopandrewedusc@gmail.com because the address couldn't be found, or is unable to receive mail.

Sam Rodman
8:00 AM (1 hour ago)
to me

Thanks again, Dale.
I had a chance to read some of these great sermons this morning. A team of us were at St. Paul's last evening to provide some pastoral care, in the wake of Jim's death. One of the presenters also quoted Simone Weil about the importance of paying attention as an expression of prayer and of love. The Holy Spirit is moving, or at least our minds and hearts are, in the direction of hope. Thank you for your considerable gifts and leadership as you walk with this congregation during this time!
Bp. Sam

Dale Hathaway <dhath12@gmail.com>
8:56 AM (14 minutes ago)
to Sam

Dear Bishop,
Thank you for your care-filled attention and response. I had the thought to send the link to my sermons during one of my daily walks. I began the respository after retirement when I realized that the best record of my life and thoughts was found in my preaching. The prompt to send the link to you was in the realization that any accounting or reporting of my ministry should at least include my effort to find the words to connect the gospel to the lives of the saints of God. Over the years I have earnestly tried to be faithful to that calling. I am grateful for and impressed with the abundant response you have given the people of St. Paul's. I am just a small piece in the huge community for which you have oversight, but you have shown a gracious attention, and I do hope to meet you one day. Thank you again.


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 06 / 06 / 20:12:29 /
tags: ['Church,June 2021']

Feedback on supply at Christ Church , Lancaster.

My test of "Are you glad you were here?" is, "Did I have fun?"

**Fun** is not a bad thing. I had fun today because of:

1. a little chuckle with humor in my sermon
1. singing #711 with Valierie the musician
1. saying "That was beautiful" after her offertory play on the piano.

(She later referred a little to her training as a Doctorate in music performance)


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 06 / 07 / 15:57:13 /
tags: ['June 2021,StPauls']

Catherine coming tomorrow night. Reported from call with me.

They may be open to my coming to St. Paul's. StPauls What she's mostly concerned with is "Rector Search". Search seems to be where the vestry is.

Thursday: cathartic, 18 from diocese, 30 from church, regional canons volunteered to do Sunday this month. Charlotte would like me to start Sunday after next. 6-8 breakout groups. "They need a rudder and they are hurting."

A search, Charlotte thinks, expect 6 months - 1 year. Charlotte can fill in from Charlotte and diocese. The sooner we can have 1 leader the better. Catherine will want to talk about what they can afford. Parish doesn't know but the vestry does know that they have received a bequest for $100,000.

Brad came perhaps under misunderstanding: staff, volunteers.

Charlotte would maybe like twice a month Eucharist by August.

She tends to agree


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 06 / 09 / 10:47:02 /

tags: ['June 2021,Church']
CPG guidelines. Catherine suggested that I might be $2500 per month. Catherine says Charlotte can start talking to me.

Wingate available? Search apt in Monroe is not much.

20 hours per week, part in office. Friday through ?

4 months minimum ... until January, starting Sept. ... maybe start with 6 months. Charlotte thinks the vestry would be open to that. Catherine think this is not optimal time for searching – maybe March-ish.

3 transition styles on rector search, only 2 possible, "targeted transition" or "rector time-certain" i.e. rector in charge ... Catherine thinks maybe 6 months.

Catherine

next vestry in 2 weeks. They are willing to meet this Monday.

1. She reported that I am willing to try Sat. evening, they were interested.
1. Many people used to watching at a flexible time.
1. Decide ultimately decide 2 services?
1. Varied ways to communicate.
1. some choral service, some not

---

Mary Pat:

1. furnished?
1. what impact of the $ on taxes, contact Sharlene re.
1. 9 mos would be better than 6

---


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 06 / 10 / 23:31:39 /
tags: ['StPauls,discernment,June 2021,diet,health']

Four agreements to live by: (From Steve Clyburn)

1. Be impeccable with your word.....Speak with integrity. Say only what you mean. Avoid using the word to speak against yourself or to gossip about others. Use the power of your word in the direction of truth and love.
1. Don't take anything personally..... Nothing others do is because of you. What others say and do is a projection of their own reality, their own dream. When you are immune to the opinions and actions of others, you won't be the victim of needless suffering.
1. Don't make assumptions.....Find the courage to ask questions and to express what you really want. Communicate with others as clearly as you can to avoid misunderstandings, sadness, and drama. With just this one agreement, you can completely transform your life.
1. Always do your best.....Your best is going to change from moment to moment; it will be different when you are healthy as opposed to sick. Under any circumstance, simply do your best, and you will avoid self-judgment, self-abuse, and regret.

—
apropos of our discernment process re. St. Paul's

NOURISH YOUR FAITH. STARVE YOUR FEARS.

“You won't have to look for any signs when your soul is ready to step into a new chapter; they'll appear on your path at the perfect moment. You won't have to question whether or not you're going in the right direction; your intuition will have already confirmed that for you. You won't have to force a connection with your soulmate when they first arrive; you'll feel right at home. There's no need to panic when the Universe is your number one supporter. What's meant to enter your life will show up as naturally as your next breath. What's meant to stay in your life will conquer any obstacle to remain by your side. Your fear encourages the belief that you're not worthy of your dreams. Your faith encourages the belief that you're worthy of so much more. Do what's right for your spirit. Nourish your faith. Starve your fears.” - Esther T., The 50-Minute Course To Destroy Your Fears

---

Scroll back up to restore default view.
Women's Health

'I Lost 70 Pounds After Applying The Advice From This Nutrition Book'
Lexi Tavares, as told to Emily Shiffer

Wed, June 9, 2021, 8:00 AM·5 min read

My name is Lexi Tavares (@healthydynamiclife), and I am 30 years old. I currently live as a digital nomad. I am founder and CEO of Healthy Dynamic Life. I read two nutrition and weight-loss books that changed the game for me, helped me switch to a plant-based diet, and change my outlook mentally too.

For most of my life, I have been pretty fit. I grew up doing all sorts of activities, and I am very passionate about dancing. My mom shopped at the natural food store and made my family home-cooked meals. I considered myself pretty healthy.

As I was growing up, though, I experienced body dysmorphia and disordered eating behaviors, as well as over-exercising. But I remember every day by lunchtime I would be so hungry I would end up overeating at lunch. Food controlled my life.

Then, in 2018, I started gaining weight in a way that I never had before. As this was happening, I started to get super depressed. I would try to sleep as much as possible because I couldn’t bear to face myself or the world. I was relying on food as my source of happiness and pleasure.

On top of being depressed, I was in constant physical pain. My upper, middle, and low back constantly hurt. My knees, hips, and ankles hurt. I had frequent stomach aches and gastrointestinal issues. I had migraine headaches. I had chronic respiratory infections and had frequent bacterial and yeast infections.

My turning point came in February 2019 when my sister, who was living in Austin, Texas, invited me to come stay with her.
I was super excited to go visit my sister and lots of friends I had made when I lived in Austin about a year prior. But I realized that my friends in Austin had never seen me at this size before. I realized I had a huge motivation for myself to lose the excess weight I put on, and I wanted to do it as quickly as possible. But I also wanted to do it as healthily as possible.

I had done *all* the fad diets before throughout my life. I would feel deprived, hungry, and end up gaining weight again. And I would get stuck in a cycle of restriction and bingeing. So I remained open to new, healthier approaches.

One day, my mom recommended that I read the book Fit for Life by Harvey and Marilyn Diamond.
It took me a few days to read it, but it just made total sense. And after I read it, I decided that the next day I would start practicing their recommendations of:

1. Eating fruit until noon (kind of a spin on intermittent fasting, without actually fasting entirely!)
1. Focusing on raw, whole foods until 4 p.m.
1. Properly combining the right nutrients for meals for easy digestion
1. Getting 30 minutes of exercise a day


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 06 / 17
tags: ['June 2021,Roam-like Notes,Church']

"If not now, when" the theme of my sermon that is still very unfinished. Hillel. Interview with Bp. Rodman on Tuesday led to invitation to be a part of Jim Croom+'s funeral on Saturday. Go ahead for negotiations for interim position.

We met Sean's "new family" at dinner last night. Then a KKK redemption story *Burden* tonight. Burden was his name but the notion of shedding your burdens was a part of the theme. It seemed throughout to integrate with Sean's story. [I didn't tell that to Mary Pat.] I did tell her about how I resonated with the part of Forest Whitaker (playing a Rev. David Kennedy) from Laurens, SC. shades of Bp. Kennedy's son, the betrayals he enacted at Holy Nativity in defense of the bishop – Bob Fitzpatrick. I said to Mary Pat that I had imagined a role something like David's if I had stayed in Hawai'i. I think +Bob even suggested it. ValuesofSociety


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 06 / 19 / 09:14:22 /
tags: ['June 2021,Bible']

Cf. Mass reading 2co12
## Drawing on Memories

When I traveled to Japan in my early thirties, I began an adventure unlike anything I had ever experienced. I had been invited to help set up a new Catechetical Center for the Kyoto Diocese and knew no one there, not even the Maryknoll sisters with whom I would be living. Everything was new and different, affecting me deeply and inviting me to place my trust in God’s abiding presence.

It was a significant challenge to live in a country in which Christians were a small minority. At the same time, I learned so much about the call to contemplation as I explored Zen Buddhist and Shinto practices. For the first time in my life, I was challenged to examine my Christian faith in more depth, experiencing both the “agony and ecstasy” Paul speaks of in today’s first reading. I recognized my own lack of faith and my defensiveness as I tried to share my beliefs. And yet, I remembered with delight that God was with me, leading the way. Drawing on these memories of God’s accompaniment throughout my life has brought me deep peace, especially during times when I am anxious or worried.

The worries and anxieties of this past year are unlike anything most of us have ever experienced. Hard as it can be to do, it is important to remember God’s abiding love, to reflect on God’s care for all the earth and heed the invitation of Jesus to trust: “. . . will not God much more provide for you, O you of little faith?”

Sr. Pat Parachini

*Patricia Parachini, SNJM, a pastoral theologian and spiritual director, writes about spirituality, liturgy, and pastoral care.*


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 06 / 21 / 20:37:38 /
tags: ['June 2021,Church']

healing

* shaman
* *paraiti* in *"White Lies"*
* "healer" is not what we expect – or maybe even want
* "witch doctor"
* cf. Terry Holmes and work on "priest"


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 06 / 23 / 16:08:32 /
tags: ['preaching,June 2021']

Lamentations 3:22-33 at lectio

comprehensive prescription for **healing** healing

---

For the sermon on healing. I am communicating a platform or a horizon on which to anticipate gracious healing.

Conclude with Merton's prayer about seeking to do his will (6/23).


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 06 / 25 / 13:03:13 /
tags: ['June 2021,FinancialIssues,StPauls']

Sharlene, David Bowman,

* exclude up to 500K gain on sale of primary housing
* where earn money is where file, but each state has a minimum — she thinks I haven't approached it
* subject to self-employment tax – special case from pension that doesn't apply to self-employment
* she asked if I was treated as employment (statutory) – if I do that I still have to pay self-employment
* Get with Sharlene about setting up the stipend as a statutory employee, designated as housing or whatever.
* SS I will not be making the amount to change the status I have with SS as far as monthly payment
* She has experience setting up an investment vehicle to help manage major medical expenses – perhaps put my extra income into some kind of investment – cf. David
* Sharlene: big expenses come with (things that David has to deal with and doesn't have time to plan)

1. medical issues
1. helping kids
1. moves

* They sold their house in 3 days. It took 3-5 mos of preparation to get it going. Her realtor says to expect it to drop by the fall.
* logistics it's hard to live in 2 places
* David thinks that given our plan that this might be a good time to be selling – even without realtor?
* crapshoot? but can't look in the rearview mirror
* our plan be in Florida in a couple of years
* consider pulling the trigger now (David)


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 06 / 28 / 23:34:34 /
tags: ['June 2021,SelfReflection,Christ Church,SpiritualDirection']

Filed an article of insights from Lao Tzu:

1. "The Tao invariably takes no action, and yet there is nothing left undone."
1. "He who is contented is rich."
1. "Thirty spokes make a wheel, but it is the empty center that makes it work."
1. "To know that you do not know is the best. To pretend to know when you do not know is a disease."
1. "The journey of a thousand miles starts from where one stands."

---

We saw the "immersing in Van Gogh" show in Charlotte. It was quite impressive. Powerful contemporary animation and re-imaginating his works. A kind of immersion in his works that works. Brush strokes. Color. Ordinary people. Irises. Starry Night. Mary Pat played Don McLean's *Vincent*.

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 06 / 29 / 11:56:42 /

Call to CPG re. returning to work.

* Not same employer
* Limit: 20-21 so as not to stop pension benefit – $40,000 is the limit. Continue benefits.
* They need cash compension, 403b, housing –
* complication of going in and out – under age 72
* if working min. 20 hours, and employer puts me on their health plan,
* Kathleen until last year was on salary, then diocese has required work time sheet
* Catherine said ok to $500 professional development
* for Jim's LOA they made corrections to what they "spit back" – this time the diocese will formulate the letter of agreement.

Daisy


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 07 / 01 / 22:31:54 /
tags: ['StPauls,July 2021']

Dinner with Larry & Kathryn Helms:

* I am why he still attends St. Paul's – because I make him think
* animosity toward Kathleen – discrepancy between Nicci paid and Kathleen
* until recently Kathleen was salary @23,000 per year – and she is an attorney working ½ time
* long-time bitterness about the removal of cushions (for Kathleen who was told organ tech that it would improve acoustics)
* Kathryn: attraction is 1) no music 2) time early on Sunday 3) (rite 1) not important
* Larry: bread/wine & message from clergy
* Larry said repeatedly that my sermon from last Sunday was beyond good
* 2 miracles that have powered Larry's life: 1) the recovery of a walking stick while fishing – further down-river 2) dogs that alerted him about 2 deer, but there were no dogs.
* what does the Episcopal Church offer the world around us? I heard from the two of them tonight the testimony of a place that accepts all kinds – that bridges the differences – in spite of the differences that divide us!
* Brad had designated him as Senior Warden to be – confirmed by vestry
* he reports much of 8am service has left – mostly for secondary reasons

---
## Remembering the powerful events of the week

1. a week ago Charlotte and Henry to dinner
1. Judges to dinner
1. Westminster Towers time
1. dinner with Helms's


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 07 / 03 / 23:34:35 /
tags: ['July 2021,MyFamily']

I learned from St. Mary's web page that Greg Holmes died in the Spring. Funeral 3/31. Video showed St. Mary's tentatively coming back together in the sanctuary. Small numbers. But there was : Bill, Jackie, Ruth, back Isamu's head, Bridget, Richert. Their priest seemed so loud and out of place. I'm glad if they're happy with it. It seemed mostly just sad. Pablo spoke.

Greg was close to me in age. I think maybe he had diabetes or something. But still it struck close.

At couple counseling I confessed to Bridget that children mostly made me feel sad, grief, loss. She said she understood, but I responded you don't.

> it occurred to me even as I spoke that she does know something of it with so many years of Sean being lost to addiction. But she's now in the throes of his return – the Prodigal Son.


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 07 / 06 / 07:40:43 /
tags: ['Roam-like Notes,July 2021']

Exploring again org-roam  and deft with emacs. The reason is getting emacs going to use my relg 220 notes. Watched videos.  Pretty impressive.

<https://lucidmanager.org/productivity/taking-notes-with-emacs-org-mode-and-org-roam/> as example of beauty and link to publishing to Hugo.

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 07 / 10 / 23:31:29 /

Oh, goodness, this quote just beckons me. And it is a part of the monthly rondo.

> “The gaps are the thing. The gaps are the spirit's one home, the altitudes and latitudes so dazzlingly spare and clean that the spirit can discover itself like a once-blind man unbound. The gaps are the clefts in the rock where you cower to see the back parts of God; they are fissures between mountains and cells the wind lances through, the icy narrowing fiords splitting the cliffs of mystery. Go up into the gaps. If you can find them; they shift and vanish too. Stalk the gaps. Squeak into a gap in the soil, turn, and unlock—more than a maple—universe.”

― Annie Dillard, *Pilgrim at Tinker Creek*


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 07 / 14 / 16:01:53 /
tags: ['Bible,July 2021']

Luke 7:31-35 reading at Lectio with Courtney.

Not satisfied with what we've got. Recognize it a lot in my life. Jamison, that we are quick to judge, even though we don't know. Courtney being a people-pleaser and not getting it right. Olga-Marie – wisdom and her descendants. She didn't know her grandmother, but she recognizes she is connected to many grandmothers.


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 07 / 15 / 10:02:56 /
tags: ['Church,Interim-Ministry,July 2021']

David Whyte – the journey. Interim meeting. 6 of us. <https://wordsfortheyear.com/2015/08/13/the-journey-by-david-whyte/>

imagery of Pacific northwest. Testament to friend's courage –leaving relationship. leaving with dreams that you have shared together.

* **Catherine Massey**: 3 older school age girls in Charlotte. Julie Murdoch joining next month. part-time priest in charge Good Shepherd at Burlington.
* **Edmund Pickup**, 8  mos. St. Mark's @ Huntersville. Through Aug. 8. Leaving with spouse to Seattle, WA extended trip. Poem: endings are not just endings, but beginnings. Don't do fishing, golf, gardening, ... Church is the thing he loves to do. Looking to maybe traveling the country via Amtrak.
* **Susan Keedy**, Trinity Episcopal Church 3 1/2 years at?? Mount Airy? Fuquay Varina? (something Marina?). Fear that the cong. would just jump at the first candidate. But they were confident enough to say, "no". Moving on. On a long trek. Only now beginning to open up. Small space. Filling slots like ushers.
* **Jill Beimdiek**, 10 mos St. Pauls, Smithfield. Leaving end of Sept. Yesterday had conversation with CPG contact. Unkind, inflexible, conversations about returning to "normal". Altar up against the wall. They think of her as a functionary with a collar. 65 y/o. She's obviously discouraged. Planning on playing with paint in retirement. Remembering the negative implants "you are not a painter" from kindergarten. St. Margaret's convent, house in Ducksbury (sp.)
* **Darby Everhard**: St. Mary's at Highpoint. 9 mos. contract. It's been a good gig. 72 y/o. Living in Winston, NC.  22 year marriage. many grandchildren.  Beach vacations planned by her husband. Realizing it is difficult to leave places. She focuses on administrative issues. She needs to step back from doing this kind of work.
* **Patricia Grace**: St. Stephen's in Durham for 6 mos. In end-stage kidney failure. Looking at kidney transplant. 65 y/o. – looking at end of life. Interim is all about endings and beginnings. Looking at training for being "clergy coach". Long term neglect of congregation. Highly affluent. Come to "be served." Unaware of who they are and of the world in which they live. Hard to figure what to do in the course of a year. Big motivation to not make people angry, unhappy.  She's an administrative person like Darby. What can you do in a year. There's no there, there.

**Catherine** seems to meet with congregations regularly, "listening sessions".

Training tools, e.g. "DRIVE" a metric to find what energizes you and what drains you. Take a class to learn to think differently. Across the country "interims" are highly needed even if not valued. Catherine's colleagues having trouble to find the likes of us who are in the middle, ...  Perhaps look at "coaching" to support those who come in to follow the one's who left.

**Susan** is shepherding the search committee – give answers that give insight into who the church, the nature of that congregation. e.g. that congregation is that they are "competent at being church."

St. Francis Springs in Stoneville. (Greensboro) "Catholic Hilton". (used to convent food at St. Margaret's is satisfactory)

**Susan**: Some congregations are bound to their problems, "stuck". Need more time and a trained intervention – more than a year. A year might give you time to work through "grief" – but more time needed to change?

Leave a letter to the successor as you leave a congregation. **NB** List with bullet points of the problems?

**Catherine**: This diocese for 10 years has had an approach to interim ministry that is short. That a reaction to interim ministry of 80's which was more "deconstruction". Now looking for people to walk along and put flags on the things to pay attention to. Feels "abrupt". Jill was coming into a place that had the longest serving rector in decades. Connecticut has gone **to no more interims** cause they can't find any.

**Susan**: The church has always been in change. Rather we need to turn our face to the future. Stir up possibilities.

**Darby**: We are all interims. Love them and move on to what God has called us to.

**Darby**: help the vestry/congregation face issues that are going on. Honesty? Plant seeds.

**Dale**: ask the question "Why should there be an Episcopal Church in this community?" **Patricia** has repeatedly asked this question to her congregation in Raleigh.

**Walter Brueggheman**: when people are in special grief or pain, they don't have time for **The common Good**.  (**Patricia**) facing the question of times: meeting at 9:30 which is unpleasant for 8 o'clock folks as well as 10 o'clock folks.

**Patricia** observed that good things happened during time of Covid. e.g. Old people doing Zoom. Projecting things on the wall.

Next meeting Aug 19. **Ed** leaving to travel. **Darby** leaving.


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 07 / 17 / 23:36:48 /
tags: ['Winthrop,July 2021']

What a development! I learned today that I had been removed from one of the courses that I had been planning to teach: Introduction to Reading Biblical Texts. No warning. I discovered it while preparing my syllabus. Immediately I knew that I could not teach my other course. I was done with Winthrop. Mary Pat  made the connection that my tenure with WU began bureaucratic bull shit and it was ending with the same. Kristin Kiblinger didn't respond to my obvious offense but rather to a defensive nonsense about why it happened.

There is real relief at having WU suddenly lifted from my burdens. I have to navigate telling Greg and returning the key. But I'm done with that and so my life is simpler.

Somewhat impoverished but I'll have to work at the intellectual stimulation part.


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 07 / 21 / 10:26:37 /
tags: ['StPauls,July 2021']

Is this one of those times when we need to refrain from speaking?

But how can we not speak?

We are in the desert, a sacred place. It is where a group of former slaves was forged into a people. It is where Jesus rebuked Satan and refused to listen to his lies. It is where countless hearts have been purged of self-love as they traversed the dark night of the soul.

We are in the desert, but in this place, too, the sower sows seed. Perhaps the parched desert soil will produce a rich harvest. We ask, not to tempt God, but because we truly do not know. What is this bread that God gives us to eat?

*Rachelle Linner*

> Rachelle Linner is a freelance writer, reviewer, and a spiritual director. She has a master of theological studies from Weston Jesuit School of Theology and a certificate in spiritual direction from the Franciscan Spiritual Direction Certification Program.

---

Monroe

800 Southridge DR, Monroe, NC 28112

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 07 / 22 / 23:13:33 /

Timeline of god's-hand in the move to Monroe:

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 07 / 26 / 09:04:48 /

community

*From MP's facebook page*
Ronda Greene Johnson

July 11 at 8:14 PM  ·

Kenyan runner Abel Mutai was only a few meters from the finish line, but got confused with the signs and stopped, thinking he had finished the race. BA Spanish man, Ivan Fernandez, was right behind him and, realizing what was going on, started shouting to the Kenyan to keep running. Mutai did not know Spanish and did not understand.
Realizing what was going on, Fernandez pushed Mutai to victory.
A reporter asked Ivan, "Why did you do this?" Ivan replied, "My dream is that one day we can have some sort of community life where we push ourselves and also  others to win."
The reporter insisted "But why did you let the Kenyan win?" Ivan replied, "I didn't let him win, he was going to win. The race was his."
The reporter insisted and asked again, "But you could have won!" Ivan looked at him and replied: "But what would be the merit of my victory? What would be the honor of this medal? What would my Mother think of it?" The values are transmitted from generation to generation. What values do we teach our children and how much do you inspire others to earn? Most of us take advantage of people's weaknesses instead of helping to strengthen them.


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 07 / 28 / 16:08:01 /
tags: ['July 2021,lectio']
## Lectio:

* "equip the people" (edify)
* Oneness
* dance with the people for a season

Courtney's birthday is 8/20

> “The fundamental delusion of humanity is to suppose that I am here and you are out there. -*Yasutani Roshi*, **Zen master** (1885-1973)”


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 07 / 29 / 23:40:55 /
tags: ['July 2021,wild-goose,holy-spirit,Franciscan,ThinkingAbout']

ThinkingAbout

> The Wild Goose was a term that the ancient Celts had for the Holy Spirit.
>
> From the first time I heard this it stirred something in my heart. Yes, there is a wildness to the Holy Spirit. The dominant images of the Holy Spirit are a meek dove or a flickering flame of a candle, both of which are in one way accurate. But the Holy Spirit is more than that. God’s Spirit is power and blows not merely like a gentle breeze but at times like a raging wind. Sometimes, this power makes us nervous. We like the idea of the Holy Spirit as a flame on a candle but a raging fire often causes anxiety. Our first instinct is to get it under control. It’s hard to control a wild goose; believe me, I know.
>
> > > >
>
> This is a quality operation. Catholic apprehension of the WIld Goose metaphor, to compete with the "progressive" version going on in Asheville. Video is an important gig for them.
>
> <https://thewildgooseisloose.com/who-we-are>


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 07 / 31 / 09:59:15 /
tags: ['July 2021,creation-spirituality']

Blessed Among Us

Paula González

Sister of Charity, Environmentalist (1932–2016)

Paula González, who was born in Albuquerque, entered the Sisters of Charity of Cincinnati in 1954. After receiving a doctorate in biology, she went on to teach for many years at the College of Mount St. Joseph. A turning point in her life came when she saw the first photographs of Earth from outer space. It was the beginning of a new vocation in environmental ministry.

In confronting the perils facing the earth, González realized it was not enough just to protest. It was necessary to demonstrate life-sustaining alternatives and to develop a new Earth-conscious spirituality. With the help of volunteers, using recycled materials, she converted an old chicken barn into a fully solar-powered and solar-heated house—“Casa del Sol”—which became her home. In 1995 she established EarthConnection, an environmental learning center on the grounds of her order’s motherhouse.

At the same time, Sr. Paula tried to articulate a spirituality appropriate to our place in the cosmos. She spoke of God as “The Great Living One”—whose presence could be seen in all creation. Reflecting on the Our Father, she wrote, “When we proclaim God’s name as ‘hallowed’ (holy), do we recognize the echo of God’s name in the wonder all around us? Might God be calling us to be co-creators of a transformed earth, a heaven of peace and harmony?”

She died on July 31, 2016.

“ ‘Thy will be done’ has to be looked at in a new way: namely, that we maintain ecological community. In the end ecological kinship is the only valid way in which to pay homage to our Creator.”—Sr. Paula González


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 08 / 02 / 05:34:44 /
tags: ['August 2021,dream,StPauls']

dream that I got to the altar at St. Paul's, and some folks (men) had decided that we were having wine that day and there were two flagons of it sitting on the altar. It was as if it were next Sunday. Unilateral decision that the church was going to be run by the "other" side.

My response was the important thing. I was frustrated. Angry at the one-sided nature of the decision-making. Like when there was no communicating with Bridget or with Mary Pat. I have seen that side of the church. I've tried to do the right thing – **always**. But I think I've not very often succeeded.

It feels a little, also, like the unknown, silent, behind-my-back stuff that threatens through the phone call about an investigation that is present as a recorded voice message on Mary Pat's phone. There was information that it was odd that any one would have:

* Aloha and Mahalo
* an accent that seemed perhaps African or Middle-eastern
* a check from St. Paul's Church

The struggle within me had to do with my own impotence to manage or respond. **There's a message for me in my ministry with St. Paul's**. This along with the overwhelming support I found at Christ Church yesterday and have found consistently at St. Paul's.


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 08 / 03 / 07:23:10 /
tags: ['August 2021,dream,Hawaii']

dream long and satisfying. I was in Hawai'i. I was in the church but also seemingly teaching stuff. I was going from place to place. Seeing people. Ruth Yoshioka was there and she was a friend, at least an ally. But maybe there was a cut, too. Mountains, snow on the mountains, a little like Colorado I guess. So maybe it was "home."

I was getting ready for the classic travel dream, returning. But I wasn't at all sure that I was going to get on the plane. I was pretty sure I was going to stay, even though it was going to be expensive.

It all seems somehow connected with leaving Rock Hill. Heading to a ministry that seems genuine – though clearly not easy as seems clear after my talk with Nicci yesterday.


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 08 / 07 / 00:28:56 /
tags: ['August 2021,humility,SpiritualDirection']

“Knowing God without knowing our wn wretchedness makes for pride.   Knowing our own wretchedness without knowing God makes for despair.  Knowing Jesus Christ strikes the balance because he shows us both God and our own wretchedness.”

― Blaise Pascal, [Pensée ](https://www.goodreads.com/work/quotes/3102980)

It is this taking responsiblity for our own heart and journey that THomas Merton desribes as 'a kind of mysterious awakening to the fact that where you are is where you belontg ... our true self – who we really are. (from Celtic Prayer, V. 2) p. 1531.


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 08 / 12 / 11:02:25 /
tags: ['writing,poem,security,August 2021']

marypat-birthday-72

Changed address amex: \
800 SOUTHRIDGE DR\
MONROE, NC\
28112-7772\
\
failed to change address at, but changed login information to get in:\
cpbank:\
\
\
<https://www.cpb.bank/>\
\
daha28\
dch2Cpbank!

1. most famous person I ever met: Archbishop Ramsey
1. relative living furthest from me: Olympia
1. first musical instrument learned to play: piano


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 08 / 15 / 09:24:31 /
tags: ['Kindness,quote,August 2021']

<https://quoteinvestigator.com/2010/06/29/be-kind/>

Investigating The quote I first heard from John O'Donoghue on Koko Crater: **Be kind for everyone you meet is fighting an epic battle**.

Seems to be but a 100 years old.


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 08 / 20 / 16:50:15 /

Prayed by Bp. Anne and posted this day by Steve Charleston

Images of the sea and storms keep coming unbidden to my mind. \
I think of all of us out on the great waters of our recent history, being tossed about by the storms that swirl around us. \
However brave a crew we may be, there are ships among us who are lost and good people swept away. \
This image stays with me. It troubles me. \
Perhaps you understand where it comes from and perhaps it troubles you too. \
If so, then please join me in a shared vision today.\
 I am praying for the waters to be calmed. \
For the storm to be stilled. \
For those in peril to be rescued. \
Throughout this day I am going to bring that vision to my mind, praying that the One who is able will bring peace to troubled waters. \
May every heart be joined in this simple but ever so powerful supplication and may all of our ancestors join us in the asking.


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 08 / 27 / 23:35:51 /
tags: ['August 2021,Church,StPauls']

Tonight at dinner with Charlotte and Henry, I told stories:

1. The principle of keeping church safe, is not easy and simple. But having a principle in mind allows for ... ? progress? There is the episode of Bridget's son and the Sr. Warden's daughter. But tellable story is of homeless person, mentally ill, her partner my drummer, she loved the liturgy. But she attacked Jane Oki. She was no longer welcome.
1. the ease of body in saying "no" to WU. But in contrast there have been times when I am defensive and my body reacts to precisely the thing I need to do but have resisted.
1. Lilly ?? and Elaine ?? suggested as Warden types. Scott, perhaps, as vestry. I asked the question who should recruit? Not clear.
1. Could we have a warden who refuses vaccine? I think, "No."


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 08 / 29 / 23:46:36 /
tags: ['August 2021,gratitude']

From my prayers tonight, world prayers

Thanks

BY W. S. MERWIN

with the night falling we are saying thank you
we are stopping on the bridges to bow from the railings
we are running out of the glass rooms
with our mouths full of food to look at the sky
and say thank you
we are standing by the water thanking it
standing by the windows looking out
in our directions

back from a series of hospitals back from a mugging
after funerals we are saying thank you
after the news of the dead
whether or not we knew them we are saying thank you

over telephones we are saying thank you
in doorways and in the backs of cars and in elevators
remembering wars and the police at the door
and the beatings on stairs we are saying thank you
in the banks we are saying thank you
in the faces of the officials and the rich
and of all who will never change
we go on saying thank you thank you

with the animals dying around us
taking our feelings we are saying thank you
with the forests falling faster than the minutes
of our lives we are saying thank you
with the words going out like cells of a brain
with the cities growing over us
we are saying thank you faster and faster
with nobody listening we are saying thank you
thank you we are saying and waving
dark though it is

W.S. Merwin, "Thanks" from Migration: New and Selected Poems. Copyright © 2005 by W.S. Merwin.  Reprinted by permission of The Wylie Agency, Inc..
Source: Migration: New and Selected Poems (Copper Canyon Press, 2005)


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 08 / 31 / 23:23:51 /
tags: ['StPauls,blog,August 2021']

Journal

1. 20th anniv. of 9/11
1. Fall of Kabul – end of longest war
1. Hurricane Ida
1. Haiti
1. Jan's fall
1. Melinda's miscarriage
1. relentless Covid onslaught

cf. notes for leadership-meeting

So much suffering in the world. What to do?

What is the role of the church? Mother Teresa. So many other saints. Do what we can in this place at this time. One small thing with love.

I keep thinking of the people of Palestine in 70 CE.  People at time of Black Death. The 100 years war. WW1 in France. WW2 in Poland.

$ for resettlement of Afghani refugees. $ for Haiti. Prayers for the hurting and vulnerable.

Remember. Tell the story.

Some may say: "It's not my problem." Others, "Let someone else take care of it."

Others would seek to blame: "It's their fault."

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 09 / 01 / 22:31:15 /

1. If you’d like to assist refugees coming from Afghanistan,  here are two sites to do so:
Donations to Afghan Refugees - Amazon Custom Gift List

* <https://www.amazon.com/registries/custom/search?name=refugee>

Also, Seattle Indivisible website offers several  other avenues people can explore to help:

* <https://www.seattleindivisible.com/daily-actions/2021/8/18/donate-locally-or-volunteer-to-help-afghan-refugees>

Cribbed from David's weekly article at St. Elizabeth's

---

Apprehend God in all things, for God is in all things.\
Every single creature is full of God and is a book about God.\
Every creature is a word of God.\
If I spent enough time with the tiniest creature—even a caterpillar—I would never have to prepare a sermon.\
So full of God is every creature.

*Meister Eckhart*

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 09 / 04 / 09:41:40 /

In 1958 he received the Nobel Peace Prize. He lived to the age of 90 and died in his hospital on September 4, 1965.

“It is not enough merely to exist. It’s not enough to say . . . ‘I do my work well . . . I’m a good churchgoer.’ That’s all very well, but one must do something more. Seek always to do some good somewhere. —*Albert Schweitzer*

...

During the pandemic we witnessed the disastrous impact of those “hostile in mind” to public health protocols and mitigation efforts. We also saw hostility manifest itself in our unwillingness to listen to those with whom we disagree. Our collective aggression and division were on full display.

In the face of this disunity, I am drawn to Samuel Taylor Coleridge’s more helpful (if esoteric!) “esemplastic imagination”: **our ability as humans to take two concepts which do not coexist in nature and combine them into a new reality. Disparate things become part of a unified whole—the very definition of being “open in mind.”**

As children our imaginations flourished, and anything was possible. As adults too many have allowed their imaginations to atrophy, giving way to cynicism rather than possibility. Jesus, lord of the Sabbath, reminds us to remain firmly grounded, holding fast to the hope of the Gospel. Peace is possible. Concern for the common good is possible. Nurture these possibilities. Jesus sustains our life, shows us the way, and will accompany us to eternity.

Sr. Julia Upton

*Julia Upton, RSM, is Provost Emerita at St. John’s University in New York. She is the author of Worship in Spirit and Truth: The Life and Legacy of H. A. Reinhold.*


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 09 / 06 / 05:33:23 /
tags: ['dream,September 2021']

The most terrible nightmare. I'm awake now because this was going on for an hour it seemed. I was at a museum kind of affair. It was Hawai'i, but not a place that I knew. I was in the company of Bill Mok and family. I was estranged from my wife – I guess it was Bridget – but we were somehow together at this museum. But we got separated. I was with the Mok's. And the nightmare was that I couldn't do anything. My phone didn't work. Then I lost it. I lost the car. I was wrestling with the leftover things in the little place I was staying in. **I wanted to go home. But I couldn't**. I couldn't figure it out. I felt stupid. Then abandoned. I was on my own.

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 09 / 08 / 22:54:48 /

created: 2021-09-08T22:54:31 (UTC -04:00)
source: <http://www.letyourlifespeak.com/>
author:

---
## Let Your Life Speak
tags: [Let Your Life Speak,Parker J Palmer,Insight,Religion,Jossy   Bass,Wiley,Inspiration,Courage,renewal]
## Excerpt

> Parker J. Palmer's Let Your Life Speak Landbng Page

---

_“The insight we receive on the inner journey is that chaos is the precondition to creativity: as every creation myth has it, life itself emerged from the void. Even that which has been created needs to be returned to chaos from time to time so it can be regenerated in more vital form.”_
— Parker J. Palmer, author of *Let Your Life Speak* and founder of the [Center for Courage & Renewal](http://www.couragerenewal.org).

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 09 / 10 / 00:58:11 /

“Is the life I am living the same as the life that wants to live in me?”

With this searching question, Parker Palmer begins an insightful and moving meditation on finding one's true calling.

Let Your Life Speak is an openhearted gift to anyone who seeks to live authentically. The book's title is a time-honored Quaker admonition, usually taken to mean “Let the highest truths and values guide everything you do.” But Palmer reinterprets those words, drawing on his own search for selfhood. “Before you tell your life what you intend to do with it,” he writes, “listen for what it intends to do with you. Before you tell your life what truths and values you have decided to live up to, let your life tell you what truths you embody, what values you represent.”

Vocation does not come from willfulness, no matter how noble one’s intentions. It comes from listening to and accepting “true self” with its limits as well as its potentials. Sharing stories of frailty and strength, of darkness and light, Palmer shows that vocation is not a goal to be achieved but a gift to be received


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 09 / 10 / 22:38:12 /
tags: ['September 2021,MyFamily,StPauls']

Mary Pat says that I shouldn't feel bad about disappointing the people here. They want a super-hero and I'm not that. She says that if I make them disappointed in me it will motivate them to get a permanent priest.

She's right actually. Though I don't know if I can feel good about that.

---

Bill called earlier. He sent us the crab cakes as a housewarming gift. He'd been wanting to do it, he said, for a while. He is so good. So thoughtful.

Talking with him was the best thing in the past few days. So relaxed. So comfortable.

He reports that:

* Julian is moving to the mountains. He will be maintenance man with a condominium. Receives lodging and a ski pass.
* He had to tell Mo that he couldn't take care of the dogs while she goes to California. But she doesn't yet know he's moving.
* Julian saw Owen on July 4. Bridget and girls & lots of dogs were there. Last time he saw Owen.


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 09 / 10 / 23:27:00 /
tags: ['September 2021,daily prayer,2021 / 01 / 08 / 10:16:59 /']

Forgive me, most gracious Lord and Father, if this day I have done or said anything to increase the pain of the world. Pardon the unkind word, the impatient gesture, the hard and selfish deed, the failure to show sympathy and kindly help where I had the opportunity, but missed it; and enable me so to live that I may daily do something to lessen the tide of human sorrow, and add to the sum of human happiness. (*anonymous Christian*)

from *Prayers for Healing today's *


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 09 / 18 / 07:10:29 /
tags: ['September 2021,dream']

dream this morning, stretching on through several "dozes" was filled with the characters of my life. Paolo was mixed in with a colorful array of Hawai'i people. The place of the dream was clearly Hawai'i, but it seemed more like New Zealand, as if it was filled with the places of my life. There wasn't a deep frustration about getting home as in so many of my dreams, but there was the challenge of coralling all the personalities. When I woke up I couldn't stop thinking about John Egan. That led to goings on at Rensselaer.

It came up by name during this week as I observed to Charlotte and Henry that the two institutions I was involved with – during the time I have called the happiest in my life – have gone out of business.

I'm not a wizard at picking winners or a recovery specialist. But I think I have an ability to accompany folks on a spiritual journey – if they want company. I felt that empathy-piece when Kathleen started our conversation by talking about the death of their Great Dane. I ended up ad-libbing a response, since I didn't know what to say, but I wanted to build up Kathleen. My response had to do with the desire not to get older by growing a **thick skin** and, with her help, observed that sensitive artist type have an ability to live life more fully and thus to experience death more fully.


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 09 / 27 / 22:42:59 /
tags: ['September 2021,love,Miriam']

Watching *New Amsterdam* tonight. Helen and Max consummate their love. They have mutually expressed their love and devotion. Yet it seems doomed from the beginning. She is called to London.

Why my attraction to them? Why do they seem so personal for me? Identification with Max? Beauty of Helen?

I don't know.

---

[sent to Miriam: she responded quickly]

“To be of the Earth is to know
the restlessness of being a seed
the darkness of being planted
the struggle toward the light
the pain of growth into the light
the joy of bursting and bearing fruit
the love of being food for someone
the scattering of your seeds
the decay of the seasons
the mystery of death and
the miracle of birth.”

― *John Soos*


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 09 / 29 / 15:41:36 /
tags: ['September 2021,christian,suffering']
## Shusaku Endo

*Novelist (1923–1996)*

The novelist Shusaku Endo, who was baptized as a child following his parents’ divorce, spent much of his life pondering the ambivalence and tension implied in his identity as a Japanese and a Catholic. He later likened his faith to an arranged marriage; he tried several times to leave, but something always held him close.

After a trip to the Holy Land, Endo developed a deep love for the image of the Suffering Servant, despised and rejected. He believed this image of the Christ who made himself nothing, an image of maternal compassion in place of an image of power and judgment, was the image that might touch the Japanese heart. He expanded these reflections in the popular Life of Jesus.

Endo is best known for his novel Silence, which tells the story of a Portuguese Jesuit in Japan during the time of fiercest persecution. After his own arrest and torture, he is forced to watch a parade of faithful Christians go to their deaths. To spare their lives, he is finally induced to recant and trample on a holy image, after hearing the voice of Christ tell him, “Trample! Trample! I more than anyone know of the pain in your foot. Trample! It was to be trampled on by men that I was born into this world. It was to share men’s pain that I carried my cross.”

Endo died on September 29, 1996.

*“God is not a punishing God, but a God who asks that children be forgiven.”*

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 10 / 01 / 08:37:44 /

Oh, Ali,
This is like one of the most wonderful emails I've ever received. Your trust and honesty in sharing something of your story is a treasure and I thank you profoundly.

In terms of your conclusions about things, I mostly agree with all of them. Your stubbornness and not fitting in – yep, check that. From the sounds of it I would say you have earned your conclusions in spades. Over the years I have watched my little brother be a model for me of a loving, kind, and thoughtful person. He's also either atheist or agnostic. He loves me and I love him. I've tried to generalize over the years, thinking at times that unbelievers are better at love than Christians. But I don't really think that's the case. I've known Christians who are profoundly loving and kind also. It's also clearly the case that Christians don't have a monopoly on violence, prejudice, and evil. At this point in my life I've decided I'm content to continue to try to be kind and love and to be a witness and force against violence, prejudice and evil. As long as the Christians accept me I'm good with that. At this point I don't think there's any other place for me.

I heard an interview with Pete Seeger many years ago. He reflected on how most of the causes that he had stood up for and fought during his long life had ultimately been losing battles. He said that what was important to him was not the winning or losing but to have spent your life with the "good people" – by which he meant the people who were fighting for and against the right things. Love, kindness, against violence, injustice etc., that sort of thing. I sometimes remind myself of his words when I feel discouraged. Your story encourages me. When I see you in church it brings me a smile. Thank you.

Faithfully,
Dale +

To see a World in a Grain of Sand
And a Heaven in a Wild Flower
Hold Infinity in the palm of your hand
And Eternity in an hour (Blake)

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 10 / 04 / 11:44:03 /

Conctacted me for my birthday:

1. Murray called late at night
1. Julian called me when Mary Pat was bustling me out the door for the dinner party
1. Sean called while picking up dinner
1. Gail Greer wished happy birthday
1. Lydia sent a moderate message
1. Mo sent a message with some lasting significance


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 10 / 11 / 22:43:54 /
tags: ['October 2021,william blake,aldous huxley,book of the dead,Radium girls']

Did you know some people call *The Book Of The Dead*

**The Book Of Coming Forth Into Light?**

That's beautiful.

Oh look, I love this part.

---

Mayest thou be at peace with me.  \
May I advance upon the earth.  \
May I crush the evil one.  \
May my arms become spears to thwart crocodiles.  \
May I live in the season of revolution.  \
May the light of my soul detect shadows of evil.  \
The doors of perception open.  \
Hey!  \
What was hidden has been revealed.  \
I am restless.  \
I smell a change coming.  \
The shape of truth is coming.  \
Let me fly to the far edge of sky.  \
Let me rest in the folds of the earth.  \
I am a child of eternity.

---

This is the ending to movie *Radium Girls*

The sisters had been fascinated by the Book of the Dead. This lines at the end (quoted above) seem to be in part taken from the opening of the Egyptian book of the dead.

The **doors of perception** was what caught my attention. It is, first and foremost for me, from Aldous Huxley – cf. college days, and his experiments with **mescalin**. In reading about that I paid attention to the note that he suffered from **iritis** for many years.

The metaphor itself is from William Blake.

“If the doors of perception were cleansed every thing would appear to man as it is, Infinite. For man has closed himself up, till he sees all things thro' narrow chinks of his cavern.”

― William Blake, *The Marriage of Heaven and Hell*

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 10 / 21 / 06:29:03 /

Yesterday's reflection in *Give Us This Day*. Mary Pat responded that this passage seemed intended for me. She seems focused on my un-settled, dis-ease, loss-of-focus, loss-of-self. I returned to the theme with Linda at Spiritual Direction. (cf. "Joplin" notes)

> It was the Lord’s doing, not their own. It was the Lord’s power at work in and for them, which could do immeasurably more than they could ask or imagine (cf. Eph 3:20). It was sheer gift; it was grace.
>
> So is our deliverance from sin, as St. Paul reminds us in his Letter to the Romans. Of ourselves, we could never have broken the power of sin and death over us, but Jesus has done it for us. We are indeed raised from the dead, even now sharing in his eternal life. Nevertheless, sin continually attempts to ensnare us. On our own, we could never withstand it, but we can with the power of God’s grace. Our help is in the name of the Lord. We need only call upon him.

**Sr. Anne Elizabeth Sweet**

*Anne Elizabeth Sweet is a Cistercian nun at Tautra Mariakloster, Norway. She is among the authors of Northern Light, a collection of reflections on liturgy and life as experienced in the monastic setting of Tautra in the Trondheim fjord.*


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 10 / 23 / 09:43:20 /
tags: ['Zen,October 2021']
## Blessed Among Us
## Maura O’Halloran

*Christian Zen Monk (1955–1982)*

Maura O’Halloran, who was born in Boston and raised in Ireland in a large Catholic family, displayed from a young age a deep compassion for human suffering. After graduating from Trinity College, Dublin, she worked in soup kitchens and traveled widely in Latin America. Her concern for social justice was accompanied by a serious attraction to the spiritual life. After experimenting with various methods of prayer, she decided to explore the wisdom of the East.

In 1979 she flew to Japan and applied for admission to a Zen Buddhist monastery in Tokyo, at the time rather a novelty for a woman in a very male setting. Her journals record her experience—sustained periods of meditation, manual labor, and an ascetic discipline of mind and body. After six months she experienced an ecstatic breakthrough, which her Master recognized as enlightenment. So impressed was he by her progress that he made an extraordinary offer—to entrust his monastery to her. But Maura did not believe this was her vocation. “I’m twenty-six and I feel as if I’ve lived my life,” she wrote. “Strange sensation, almost as if I’m close to death. . . . I’m totally content. Of course I want to get deeper, see clearer. . . . If I have another fifty or sixty years (who knows?) of time, I want to live it for other people.”

After leaving the monastery she was killed in a bus accident on October 22, 1982. The publication of her journal brought a devoted following by both Christians and Buddhists. A small statue of her in the monastery in Japan is revered by many pilgrims.

“*Suddenly I understood that we must take care of things just because they exist.*”—Maura O’Halloran

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 10 / 29 / 18:51:43 /

A week ago we learned about Maura O'Halloran at our daily prayer from *Give us this day.* She was a "Christian Zen Monk" who died prematurely and too young. I was so intrigued that I ordered a used copy of her journals and letters, *Pure Heart; Enlightened Mind.* When it arrived this evening, as I pulled it out of its wrapper, it fell open to a page. In the middle of the page I read:

> "I made banana pudding. Tessan-san said, "What, no cake?" I pointed out the absence of an oven. The closest we could come was "hot cakey mix." He made a plump, delicious, greasy donuts. ... "Do you like jazz?" said Tessan-san. "Yes," said I, while thinking to myself, I'd like Phoebe Snow. Phoebe Snot it uncannily was. Often, with very simple things like that, I think of something I want and it just comes. Strange.


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 11 / 06 / 23:48:00 /
tags: ['poem,November 2021']

cf. interesting knowledge wiki

<<https://github.com/nikitavoloboev/knowledge/blob/main/SUMMARY.md>>

comment on getting to it at:

<<https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=21332957>>

---

It IS interesting, Gay, thought-provoking. Thank you for sharing.

Mary Pat

On Sat, Nov 6, 2021 at 12:17 PM Gay Clyburn <gclyburn49@gmail.com> wrote:

If I prayed, which I don’t,\
then we could say that I asked\
god to open every door that I\
had shut, every door I did not\
know was there.\
Why I asked this, well,\
this will make sense to you\
or it won’t, but every closed\
door I was aware of\
had became a point of suffering.\
And with every open door,\
I could feel congruence,\
the world rushing in to create\
more space in me.\
And god said to me, though\
we could not say that it was a voice,\
god said, Open even the door with people jeering\
on the other side, their faces twisted\
in hate? Even the door to an entire\
forest of sorrow? And because\
this conversation was not really\
happening, we could not say that\
I said yes to the questions, but\
we could say, perhaps, that\
the yes began to root in me\
and it was not so much a matter\
of someone opening the doors\
but that the doors more or less\
dissolved. And what I had thought\
could separate me from anything else\
was shown to be nothing at all.\
I would like to tell you that I felt grace\
in the opening, but the truth\
is I felt such terrible ache.\
And god did not come put a hand\
on my cheek and tell me\
everything would be okay.\
In fact, if anything, the voice\
I did not hear told me\
there are no promises.\
But I felt it, the invitation\
to keep opening doors,\
to not close my eyes,\
to not turn away.\
And though I do not pray,\
I said thank you, thank you
- Rosemerry Wahtola Trommer, *Something Like This, Anyway*
  
  
  <!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 11 / 13 / 21:00:47 /

Dear Emma,

Would that there were words. Enough of them. The select right ones for the job. The job to reflect the loss of what never was. Of dreams? Perhaps. The last birthday gift I remember giving you was a kite ride above Honolulu waters. I don't know if you ever cashed it in. So many years now, I guess it doesn't matter. If there's a dream, now, I suppose it is that before I die you might walk into my room. So much gone.

Hau'oli la hanau. Shalom, my beautiful girl. So bright and full of life.

Dad

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 11 / 17 / 04:55:17 /

Tomorrow is Linda Serepca

1. find something beautiful: walk in Belk park, walk to new path and neighborhood
1. stent in artery, contact with family
1. touching some lives e.g. Steve C.
1. the Gaslight play: Deb (Brad's wife)

---


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 11 / 19 / 04:58:06 /
tags: ['detachment,zen,November 2021']

T. Keating and others on "detachment".

<https://midwestoutreach.org/2017/12/09/contemplating-contemplative-prayer-is-it-really-prayer/>

(org-mode)
<<<
*Beyond Self: The False Self vs. the True Self*

Thomas Merton claims that "the superficial 'I' is not our real self," but only our "individuality" and "empirical self," not the "hidden and mysterious person in whom we subsist before the eyes of God."20Thomas Merton, /New Seeds of Contemplation/ (Abbey of Gethsemani, Inc., 1961), This kind of thinking is found also in Keating and Pennington.

Keating states that CP takes us to a place:

"...in which the knower, the knowing, and that which is known are all one. Awareness alone remains. The one who is aware disappears along with whatever was the object of consciousness. This is what divine union is."21Thomas Keating, /Open Mind, Open Heart/ (Rockport, MA: Benedict's
Monastery, 1992), 74


Keating and Merton both discuss the false self and the true self.  Keating capitalizes "Self," and states:

"God and our true Self are not separate. Though we are not God, God and our true Self are the same thing."22Thomas Keating, /Open Mind, Open
Heart/ (Rockport, MA: Benedict's Monastery, 1992), 127 According to Merton, our "external, everyday self" is mostly a "fabrication" and is not "our true self" which:

"is not easy to find. It is hidden in obscurity and 'nothingness,' at the center, where we are in direct dependence on God."23Thomas Merton, /Contemplative Prayer/ (The Merton Legacy Trust, 1969; Garden City, NY: Image Books Edition, Division of Doubleday & Company, Inc., 1971), 70

Buddhism teaches that our identities are merely fleeting images or impressions, like images on film, or a "sequence of happenings, of processes,"24Joseph Goldstein, "Exercise/ Easting" in Jean Smith, ed., /Breath Sweeps Mind: A First Guide to Meditation Practice/ (NY: Riverhead Books, 1998), 184

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 12 / 09 / 07:53:51 /

Blessed Among Us

Gordon Zahn

Peacemaker (1918–2007)

Growing up in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, Gordon Zahn was in most respects a traditional Catholic—except in his inability to reconcile the teachings of Christ with orders to kill his fellow humans. In 1942 he declared himself a conscientious objector, though no priest or bishop would support his stand. He was assigned to a work camp for Catholic conscientious objectors, supported by the *Catholic Worker*. Afterward he had trouble finding a Catholic college that would accept him. Nevertheless, he earned a doctorate in sociology and taught at several universities.

In 1963 his book *German Catholics and Hitler’s Wars* showed how Germany’s bishops, through their general exhortations of loyal obedience to authority, had become instruments of Nazi power. This was followed by In *Solitary Witness*, which recovered the lost story of Franz Jägerstätter, an Austrian peasant executed for his refusal to serve in Hitler’s army. Zahn’s work, including his personal lobbying, was influential in moving the Council Fathers at Vatican II to support recognition of the right of conscientious objection.

Zahn worked tirelessly in the cause for peace, helping to found *Pax Christi USA*. In later years he suffered from Alzheimer’s—and thus was unable to recognize the significance of an invitation in October 2007 to attend the beatification of Franz Jägerstätter. He died two months later on December 9.

“*All Christians, whether they realize it or not, have that vocation (in the full religious sense) of serving the cause of peace and, by logical extension, the obligation to oppose war.*”

—Gordon Zahn

<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 12 / 16 / 07:39:24 /

[[Journal] sending me an excerpt from *Naked Now* by Richard Rohr

Thank you for this! Not only do I recognize this in connection with yesterday's conversation but I recognize it in my own life. The telling thing for me of what you said was, "There is no 'goal' (in spiritual direction), but if there was one, this is what it would be." Part of what is important in the relationship with Mary Pat is her memory of the teaching her priest gave her as she was discerning her own move to Hawai'i. The priest suggested the possibility that there wasn't a task to do there, but only "to be." As I have heard more than once, perhaps from Richard Rohr, that the goal is to accept that we are loved. There is, of course, a long tradition of seeing the goal as some kind of unity with God. In the counter-cultural ways of my college years, I persuaded a German professor to let me complete my language requirement with an independent study of Meister Eckhart. I did the same with one of my English requirements with an independent study of 14th c. English Mystics – that involved one of my tenderest memories of my father where he helped me photocopy an inter-library loan of the Cloud of Unknowing. The block plan at Colorado College allowed me to take a course in "Christian Mysticism" in the Wind River Range of Wyoming. A lot of this trajectory was influenced by memorizing large quantities of W.B. Yeats and T.S. Eliot. Most people would say, "What are you thinking?" It made sense to me then and is an important confirmation/memory now. Thanks.
Dale

Faithfully,
Dale

To see a World in a Grain of SandAnd a Heaven in a Wild Flower Hold Infinity in the palm of your hand And Eternity in an hour (Blake)

On Wed, Dec 15, 2021 at 9:27 PM Linda Serepca <lindaserepca10@gmail.com> wrote:
Scanned with TurboScan.

Linda SerepcaDirector, Charlotte Spirituality Ctrwww.charlottespiritualitycenter.org704-776-3787 cell


<!-- Exported from TiddlyWiki at 19:18, 22nd October 2022 -->
# 2021 / 12 / 16 / 07:43:49 /
tags: ['SpiritualDirection,creation-spirituality,December 2021']

<https://www.spiritualityandpractice.com/book-reviews/view/19451/the-naked-now>

Dale Hathaway
7:39 AM (5 minutes ago)
to Linda

Thank you for this! Not only do I recognize this in connection with yesterday's conversation but I recognize it in my own life. The telling thing for me of what you said was, "There is no 'goal' (in spiritual direction), but if there was one, this is what it would be." Part of what is important in the relationship with Mary Pat is her memory of the teaching her priest gave her as she was discerning her own move to Hawai'i. The priest suggested the possibility that there wasn't a task to do there, but only "to be." As I have heard more than once, perhaps from Richard Rohr, that the goal is to accept that we are loved. There is, of course, a long tradition of seeing the goal as some kind of unity with God. In the counter-cultural ways of my college years, I persuaded a German professor to let me complete my language requirement with an independent study of Meister Eckhart. I did the same with one of my English requirements with an independent study of 14th c. English Mystics – that involved one of my tenderest memories of my father where he helped me photocopy an inter-library loan of the Cloud of Unknowing. The block plan at Colorado College allowed me to take a course in "Christian Mysticism" in the Wind River Range of Wyoming. A lot of this trajectory was influenced by memorizing large quantities of W.B. Yeats and T.S. Eliot. Most people would say, "What are you thinking?" It made sense to me then and is an important confirmation/memory now. Thanks.