# 2021 / 01 / 09 / 18:58:21 /

Yesterday Linda emailed me material mentioned from our session on Thursday. It started with her quoting "someone" "Lost is a place, too."

Today I got an email from Peter asking me for the 2nd time what I wanted to teach in the fall. I settled on 101 and 220, 2 sections of 101 if they were online.

tags: ['January 2021,Lydia']
- ((635686e6-257a-4c3e-bed4-2ea55fffad0c))
# 2021 / 01 / 10 / 09:54:08 /
id:: 635686e6-257a-4c3e-bed4-2ea55fffad0c

Learned from Facebook that Lydia spent Christmas in Hawai'i with her beau. It was painful to find out, even as I was glad for her happiness and that she got to be by the ocean. I note that she also lives near Lake Michigan. It is I who is land-locked.
# 2021 / 01 / 11 / 05:37:47 /
id:: 635686e6-4f22-4334-806e-d2935a339366

317-breakout

Linda Serepca

Continuing my series on Religion-Evil I am moved to my core by his treatment of Jewish reflection on **Shoah**. Particularly as he began the session on literature, especially poetry and the difficulty. How can one reflect on **Beauty** in the wake of Holocaust? How does one include experiences both of perpetrators and victims. Use of irony as where it even fails. He quotes poem by Paul Celan. The use of German to write about it is a part of the intentionality of the author. In the end the language fails. Opening line of Primo Levi's memoir: "I'm fortunate I wasn't shipped to Auschwitz until 1944..." *If This Is a Man* in American edition. British edition different. <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/If_This_Is_a_Man>

As also the Banality of Evil and its connection to the Rise of Totalitarianism.  Banality doesn't mean trivial but that modern totalitarianism changes the very expression of evil.

I was given to understand that the loss of Emma was nothing in comparison with the loss of the Holocaust. Lost is a place, too It gave me a place to look at the stars. To say I am here."

I want to read Paul Celan.