# 2022-12-15


# Dec 14
Yesterday we watched a movie about Alan Turing. There were sort of 2 plot themes. One was the effort in WW2 to decode the Nazi Enigma machine. The world only learned about the astounding effort about 30 years ago. It was that “top secret.” Turing was responsible for decoding it and in the process virtually invented the concept of a “digital computer”. The other plot strand was that he was persecuted for being homosexual and committed suicide as a result. The world we live in is filled with amazing things of the light and discouraging things of the dark. “Children of light and dark” some people taught around the time of Jesus. Seems to be the same today. I so want for you, my dear daughter, the fruit of the light. What might be a sign of the “light” for you? Today?

Today I was at. A meeting of our church’s “Pastoral Care Committee”. It is the result of a major renewal effort that appears to be largely working. It seems to me that it is in part the result of a very sensitive and astute priest. He had been brought in to minister to a congregation that had been through several consecutive “catastrophes”. I was struck by the number of people — mostly women — who were passionate about reaching out and helping those who were weaker or more vulnerable than they. In words that came to mind yesterday, they were willing to get outside of themselves. I think that’s a major sign of healing after considerable and deep wounding, that we are able to get outside of ourselves and focus on “another.” I shared recently about how I used to do that in bus stations when I was younger. I would look at the great variety of people coming and going and I would imagine the life-story behind this one or that one. It was powerful for me. A powerful experience of grace.

For a little over a week now we’ve had an Advent wreath on our dining room table, where we eat most of our meals. In our little house we also have a kitchen table, but we don’t usually sit there. For over a week now we’ve lit the candles — the pink one today. We haven’t followed one particular form of prayer but a mixture. One day we did evening prayer. Another a collect of the day. Tonight it was compline. I don’t know if you would have heard tell about what led me to choose the Episcopal Church at about age 12 or so when my mother made that choice. As a family we had gone to my father’s Methodist church. There were 2 things at the Episcopal Church that led me to pronounce (picture a 12 year old pontificating): real candles with fire, and real wine from a shared cup. They continue to be important to me to this day. The common note between them I guess that they are REAL. Value the real over the make-believe, the real over the transitory, the real over what somebody tells you is the real when your own experience and knowledge tells you otherwise. Be who you really are. It will always be good enough. This father loves you.

I too miss Hawai’i and I think of it as “home” when people ask me where I’m from. I’m glad that you are able to be intentional about nourishing and replenishing yourself. Good news. Thank you. 

I do miss Hawaii. I’d enjoy to go back in a few years. It’s been two years since I was there last. I’m trying to spend more time with friends and talk with them  LR

Do you miss Hawai’i? You’ve been away so long at this point. We used the word “Pupu” at a dinner we hosted last night. Several of the guests were shocked and bewildered by the word. What gives you strength at this time? What puts you in touch with energy you didn’t know you had? If I could I’d take you out for a beer somewhere. I often tell the old story of the student running through the streets of an east European Jewish community. He’s calling out in a loud voice, “I’ve got the answer. I’ve got the answer. Quick, somebody, give me the question.” I am a firm believer that it’s all about asking the right questions. The answer is, “You are loved.” I’m not sure what your question is. But I do love you.

Dec. 8 was the 40th anniversary of my ordination to the priesthood. I had asked Owen if he remembered it, and he said, “Yes. Especially I remember the laying on of hands.” You weren’t born yet, of course. But you lived a bunch of years in the wake of that event 40 years ago. I often think it’s amazing that I’ve lived this long. I look back at how much has changed in these 40-50 years, in my life, in the life of the country, the church. But of course in the light of eternity it is but the blink of an eye. There is so much I am grateful for. You are high up on that list.

Earlier, before dinner, I played “The Potters Hand”. I have played it perhaps a thousand times over the last 20 years. I don’t know. But every time I play it, I think of you. It is impressed on my heart because I remember you playing it over and over again as we moved to Hawai’i. I didn’t know how emotionally connected to Indiana you were at the time. The message of the song is that God is the potter. We are the clay. It is a humbling admission. But it is ultimately empowering to admit that we are not in charge of our lives. Perhaps you can take strength from the memory. Or perhaps later it may make sense. In either case, I send to my beloved daughter a message of strength and empowerment, of dependence on one mightier than ourselves, of reliance on one who is wiser than we can ever be. I send Shalom. And whatever it is that I can give to help in time of need.

The big deal for today in our household had to do with an initial call starting the process of creating a new will. The last one was dated 2013. Many people resist doing such things, and I often felt guilty because one of the canonical obligations of Episcopal priests is to encourage the people of the parish to prepare wills. The thing that’s so good about it is that it forces a person to look at the big picture. We live our lives with the immediate impacts of what’s happening. Ultimately our lives are measured on a much larger scale. I don’t know for sure how that news might sound to someone like you, going through difficult times. It may sound minimizing. I hope not, because what I want to convey to you is that in the big picture you are a hero. Valiant. Persistent. Determined. Seeking the high road. You can often see it in your smile. Aloha, my daughter.

We watched a very avante garde series on Netflix about Anne Boleyn. It was weird in some ways. But in my view a very good counter-point to the traditional “Wikipedia” version of history. Anne it was who gave the world (and England) Queen Elizabeth. She is the quintessential, “You go girl.” Probably the basis for my own long-standing bias toward women, encouraging women, seeking the empowerment of women, looking to the wisdom of women. That may not be the person you have perceived for many years, but I offer it to you as the portrait of the person who has been your advocate your whole life. My plea to you has always been, “You go girl.”

Tonight’s news featured the Ukrainian Children’s Choir singing “The Carol of the Bells” at Carnegie Hall. The carol was written by a Ukrainian composer and was first sung at Carnegie Hall 100 years ago. Just a couple of weeks ago the youth were rehearsing in the dark in bomb shelters in Kyiv. The story brought tears to my eyes. In some places at some times, good wins out. Isaiah in today’s reading at Eucharist proclaims that in the end good wins. But in the meantime, we need stories like those Ukrainian young people.

What is it that keeps hope alive? I think it is so individualized. Tailored to each person. Yet it is somehow universalized as well. For me it is the TV series, “This is us.” For another something else. I pay attention to stories about “Fathers”. Another relates in an entirely different genre. Gender. Mothers and daughters. These are universal stories. And there are not that many variations. Yet again and again the answer is given. It is love. It is grace. It is gift. It is not what we expected.  It is God’s surprise.

In today’s “blessed among us” I read about Daniel Rudd. He was born into slavery in 1854. He later founded and published a newspaper, “American Catholic Tribune.” I was glad to find out about him and he reminded me of your presentation that I got to hear in Memphis. I was so proud to be there. Thank you.

We just watched a movie called The Swimmers. It’s mostly about refugees. My heart goes out to refugees. But I wonder how much you recognize that for many of us “treading water” may turn into lifesaving rescue at any moment. I live in the power of metaphor. You may not know what I’m talking about. But it connects me to the rhythm of life. I carry you through rough water. Love. Grace is all. 

I would really like to continue our conversation. I know it wasn’t easy. But I do know that I totally want good things for you and want with all my heart to help you reach those good things you deserve. You can send me any kind of hint that you would like to talk. 

I had hoped to speak to you. Of course we haven’t had such a great track record with that. I will send you a check for $300 in the morning. That will cover the part of your money needs that you identified. I asked Miriam what she thought would be most helpful to you at this time. She responded, “That’s a good question. I’m not sure. I would imagine just checking in on her and asking that very question. I think so much is up in the air, it might be hard for her to know what would help. But just saying you’re there if she needs anything seems like it would be comforting." I am here and wanting with all my heart to help.

## Nov 30
One thing seems clear to me and that is that you are going through some really difficult times right now. You need all the help you can get in making "good decisions" -- as I used to say. I would gladly help pay for counseling or therapy. That sort of thing has been very important to me over the years to try to "make good decisions." I love you very much, more than words can possibly say.

