When I and my family moved from Indiana to Hawai'i, the canon to the ordinary (now bishop of the diocese) Bob Fitzpatrick, had been aware of the precarious nature of my marriage even as he invited me to do ministry in Hawai'i. We had served and worked together in the diocese of Northern Indiana. By the end of 2010 the marriage had really collapsed and it was also apparent that a ministry move was appropriate for the parish as well as for me.

I came away from my 2nd CREDO in 2007 with a determination to find a spiritual director. From that date the relationship proved to be a vital one for me. I was in regular contact with my bishop and my support network as the marriage deteriorated rapidly throughout 2008-2010. I sought to make the best decisions possible for the two children at home, aged 18 and 16. Against my wishes, the response from their mother was to precipitously move out of the house with the two girls in early March of 2011. From that point onward there was no constructive communication between us.

As negotiations to secure an equitable divorce agreement proceeded through 2011 and 2012, it became increasingly difficult to find common ground with my estranged wife. During that time I began a romantic relationship with a woman who is now very happily my wife. This drew continued anger from my estranged wife that surprised even the bishop. I remained transparent and honest with him through all the tense emotional times of 2011-2012. My wife made accusations against me that the bishop brought to my attention in the fall of 2011. His judgment in the matter was that the accusation did not rise to the level of conduct unbecoming a priest, but that pastorally I needed to take a step back. Ultimately no action was taken on the complaint, but the bishop and I agreed to a number of pastoral steps that I followed throughout 2013. From January 2014 through the time of my moving from Hawai’i, I supplied as a priest in the diocese. I later regularly supplied in the diocese of Upper South Carolina and the diocese of North Carolina.